Content indication
Main residence and care scheme , special liquidator . Rejection requests hear child of nine years and (re) appoint special guardian ad litem . 1: 250 BW.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-08-06
Publication date
2019-12-17
Case number
200,255,627
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.255.627

(case number court Overijssel 206108)

decision of 6 August 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant in the main appeal,

the defendant in the incidental appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

former lawyer: AJA Assink in Enschede (withdrawn),

currently: MM Haverkort in Hoorn, the Netherlands

and

defendant,

residing in A,

respondent in the main appeal,

applicant in the incidental appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: SC Braun, Rotterdam.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the certified institution Stichting Jeugdbescherming Overijssel,

established in Almelo,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the orders of the Overijssel court, Almelo court, of 1 June 2018, 16 July 2018 and 3 December 2018 (the last decision to be referred to as the contested decision), pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with 63 productions, received on 27 February 2019;

- the defense also containing an incidental appeal with eleven productions;

- the defense in the incidental appeal with productions;

- a journal report from mr. Assink of 13 May 2019 with productions 64 up to and including 72;

- a journal report from Mr Assink of 14 May 2019, in which Mr Assink was present

withdrawn;

- a journal report from mr. Haverkort of 14 May 2019, in which mr. Haverkort has himself

posed;

the defense in the incidental appeal, with modification of the request in the

principal appeal and with the addition of grounds in the principal appeal;

- a journal report from Mr. Braun of 27 May 2019 with a letter and with two appendices;

- a journal report from mr. Braun of 28 May 2019 with production 12;

- a journal report from mr. Braun of 3 June 2019 with letter and with productions 13 to

and with 17;

- a journal report from mr. Haverkort from 3 June 2019 with productions 73 to 77.


2.2
The minor1 appeared below on 3 June 2019, which was heard by the court in the absence of parties and interested parties.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 13 June 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. B appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board ). Furthermore it has appeared

C (appointed by the court as guardian ad litem . The court has designated the guardian ad litem as informant.


2.4
To the extent that the letter of 3 June 2019 from mr. Braun substantively addresses the points of dispute between the parties, the court will disregard this letter because it contradicts the two-claim doctrine for that part. The Court of Appeal will consider the productions attached to the letter and the explanation given in the letter.


3 The facts

3.1
The marriage of the parties was dissolved in 2018 by registering the divorce decree of 1 June 2018 in the civil register records.


3.2
Parties are the parents of:

- the minor1 (hereinafter: the minor1), born in A in 2006, and

- the minor2 (hereinafter: the minor2), born in A in 2009,

over whom they jointly exercise authority .


3.3
By order of 15 November 2017, the court determined the following for the duration of the proceedings and to the extent that they are currently relevant:

(...)

II. entrusts minors (...) to women;

(...)

IV. makes the following provisional arrangement regarding the right of minors to equal care and upbringing by both parents : the children stay in the even weeks with the man and in the odd weeks with the woman, with the change for the minor1 on Monday 2 pm (after school) and before the minor2 takes place on Tuesday at 2 pm (after school) and stipulates that the parent with whom the children do not stay will contact the children by telephone twice a week when they are staying with the other parent ;

(...)


3.4
By order of 6 December 2017, the juvenile court judge provisionally placed the GI under the supervision of the GI until 6 March 2018 in the Overijssel District Court, Almelo seat1 and the minor2.


3.5
By order of the juvenile court of 17 April 2018, the children were placed under the supervision of the GI from 17 April 2018 to 17 July 2018.


3.6
Also by order of 17 April 2018, the court amended the provisional care and contact arrangement established by the aforementioned order of 15 November 2017 and made the following provisional arrangement:

(...)

the minor2 stays with the father in the even weeks and in the odd weeks with the mother , with the change for the minor2 taking place on Wednesday afternoon after school.

the minor1 stays with father every other week from Friday afternoon after school until Sunday after dinner. Under the direction of the GI, it will be considered whether, and if so, how this regulation can be expanded;

(...)


3.7
By order of 1 June 2018, the court pronounced divorce and held any further decision.


3.8
By order of 16 July 2018, the court extended the supervision of the children to 17 January 2019.


3.9
By order of also July 16, 2018, the court, insofar as currently relevant, reserved any further decision with regard to the main residence and the care and contact arrangement.


3.10
By order of 3 December 2018 the supervision order has been extended to

April 17, 2019.


3.11
By decision of 3 December 2018, the juvenile court also ruled as follows:

(...)


4.3
determines that the primary residence of the minor children will be with the woman;


4.4
lays down the following rules concerning the right of minor children to equal care and upbringing by both parents :

the minor1 and the minor2 spend the odd weeks with mother and the even weeks with father . The breakdown of holidays and public holidays takes place as included in the appendix with the proviso that in the summer holidays the children in the even years stay the first three weeks with father and the second three weeks with mother and in the odd years vice versa;

(...)


3.12
By decision of 17 April 2019, the juvenile court ruled as follows:

(...)


7.2
rejects the more or otherwise requested.

(...)


7.3
amends the care and contact arrangement laid down by order of (…) 3 December 2018 and the attached appendix insofar as it relates to the spring break , so that from 2019 onwards the children will be with the father in the odd years and in the even years with the mother ;


7.4
amends the care and contact arrangement laid down by decision of (…) 3 December 2018 and the attached appendix insofar as it relates to the May holidays 2019 , meaning that the children spend the first week of May holidays with their father until Friday, April 26, 2019 at 6 p.m. after which they go to mother until Friday

3 May 2019 at 6 pm, after which the regular care scheme will start running again, meaning that the children will go to their father and that they will go to their mother again on 8 May 2019, in the odd week . The remaining holiday weeks will start on Friday afternoon at 2 pm and end on Friday at 6 pm in the following week / weeks (in the case of the summer holidays);


7.5
provides that the children in the event of taking (a future) always death be farewell to the occasion of a family member or loved one in the family or acquaintances of the other parent , even if they are under the care arrangements for one parent to stay;


7.6
Rejects the other requests with regard to the rules for holidays and public holidays, the penalty payments (...)


7.7
reserves any further decision with regard to the main residence and the care and contact arrangement pending the appeal;

(...)


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The main place of residence of the minor1 and the minor2 and the division of care and upbringing duties between them is a dispute between the parties .


4.2
In the contested decision - declared enforceable in stock - the court ruled, insofar as relevant here, that the children 's main residence will be with the mother and determined the following as a division of care and upbringing duties:

(...)

the minor1 and the minor2 spend the odd weeks with mother and the even weeks with father . The breakdown of holidays and public holidays takes place as included in the appendix with the proviso that in the summer holidays the children in the even years stay the first three weeks with father and the second three weeks with mother and in the odd years vice versa;

(...)


4.3
The mother appealed against the contested decision. The complaints refer to the division of care and upbringing duties determined by the court. The mother requests the Court of Appeal, by order, as far as possible in stock, to annul the contested decision and to re-establish as a division of care and upbringing duties that the minor1 and the minor2:

primary:

have their principal place of residence with her and association with the father during one weekend every fortnight from Friday evening to Sunday evening 19.00 hrs, as well as during the holidays and public holidays in accordance with the overview attached to the decision of

December 3, 2018, on the understanding that the children are not with the father for three weeks during the summer holidays , but for two weeks and during both weeks of the Christmas holiday with the mother ;

alternatively:

have their principal place of residence with her and are with the father once every fourteen days from Wednesday after school to Monday morning , as well as during the holidays and public holidays in accordance with the overview annexed to the order of 3 December 2018, provided that the children are in the summer holidays no three weeks with the father but two weeks and during both weeks of the Christmas holiday with the mother ;

more in the alternative:

have their principal place of residence with her and that the minor2 is with the father once every fourteen days from Wednesday after school to Monday morning , and the minor1 once every fourteen days from Wednesday after school until a week later Wednesday morning is with the father , and that both the Minors2 and minors1 are with the father during the holidays and public holidays in accordance with the overview attached to the order of 3 December 2018 , on the understanding that the children are not with the father for three weeks during the summer holidays but for two weeks and for both weeks of the Christmas holiday with the mother ;


4.4
The father put forward a defense and in turn brought an appeal with four complaints. The grievances relate to the principal place of residence of the children , the division of care and upbringing tasks and to the realization of the holiday and holiday arrangement. The father requests the court by order, as far as possible in stock, to annul the contested decision with the exception of the rules laid down therein for the holidays and public holidays and again doing justice:

principal appeal

I reject the mother 's requests ;

incidental appeal

primary:

II determine the main residence of the children with him and thereby

III determine a visitation arrangement with the mother , whereby the children will spend a weekend with the mother every two weeks , from Friday from school to Monday to school;

alternatively:

IV to determine a co-parental arrangement whereby the children stay with him in the even week and during the odd weeks with the mother and the change takes place on Monday to school on pain of forfeiting a penalty of € 1,000 each time the mother does not comply with this regulation;

primary and subsidiary:

V concretize the holiday arrangement as laid down in the contested decision with regard to the changeover days, in the sense that the holiday in question starts on Friday afternoon from school and ends on Monday morning to school, on pain of forfeiting a penalty of € 1,000 each time that the mother does not comply with this scheme;

VI change the arrangement for the spring holidays , as established by the contested decision, in the sense that the children then stay with him in the odd years and in the even years with the mother , on pain of forfeiting a penalty of € 1,000. every time the mother does not comply with this scheme;

VII to provide that the children in case of (future) always death are given the opportunity to say goodbye to a family member or loved one in the family or acquaintances of the other parent , even if they are under the care arrangements for one stay, under penalty forfeit of a penalty of € 1,000 each time the mother fails to comply with this scheme;


4.5
The mother defends this and requests the court:

IV. declare the father inadmissible in his incidental appeal or to reject his requests, including the penalties requested ;

and additional

V. insofar as the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that co-parenting must be maintained, to determine the changeover day on Wednesday;

VI. to the extent that the court considers the father admissible in its request under V, to determine that the children reside with the father in the odd years in the spring holidays and with the mother in the even years (as the father also requested)

VII. to the extent that the court deems the man admissible in his request under VI, to determine that during the summer holiday vacation arrangement the changeover day starts on Friday afternoon at 2:00 pm and ends on Friday evening at 6:00 pm in the following week / weeks;

VIII. to the extent that the Court of Appeal considers the man admissible in his request under VII, to provide that in the event of a (future) death the children are always given the opportunity to say goodbye to a family member or loved one from the family or acquaintance of the other parent , even if they are in accordance with the care arrangement at the one parent stays;

IX. - if necessary - appoint Ms C as special liquidator in order to enter into a dialogue with the minor 2 and the minor 1, and what they think of the requests in question, at least to determine what is in their interest, and to report and advise in that regard on the parties' requests.


4.6
In addition, the mother adjusted her request in the main appeal case in that she requests:

I. annul the contested decision;

II. and again having a division of care and upbringing duties where:

primary:

the children have their principal place of residence with her and they stay with the father for one weekend every fourteen days from Friday evening until 7:00 pm Sunday evening;

alternatively

b. the children have their principal place of residence with her and they stay with the father once every fourteen days from Wednesday after school to Monday morning before school;

changed

III. to establish a holiday arrangement in accordance with the overview annexed to the decision of 3 December 2018, with the exception of the Christmas holidays and to stipulate that the children both stay alternately one year with the mother during the Christmas holidays and the other with the father , with the even years (2020 and following) with the mother and the odd hairs (2019 and following) with the father .


4.7
The court will discuss the complaints in the principal and the incidental appeal per subject.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The parents have the custody together . Pursuant to Article 1: 253a of the Civil Code (BW), the court may, at the request of the parents or one of them, establish a regulation concerning the exercise of parental authority . These regulations may include: a. An allocation to each of the parents of the care and upbringing duties, as well as with a corresponding application of Section 1: 377a, third paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code, a temporary prohibition on a parent to have contact with the child ;

b. the decision with which parent the child has his or her main residence ;

c. the way in which information about important matters with regard to the person and the property of the child is provided to the parent with whom the child does not have his principal place of residence or the way in which this parent is consulted;

d. the manner in which information is provided by third parties in accordance with Article 1: 377c, first and second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code.


5.2
Before deciding on the aforementioned request, the court will test a comparison between the parents and may, also ex officio, if no comparison is made and the interests of the child do not prevent it, impose coercive measures permitted by law or determine that the decision or parts thereof with application of article 812, second paragraph, of the Code of Civil Procedure can be implemented.
5.3
The judge takes such a decision as he considers desirable in the best interests of the child . The court must take into account all the circumstances of the case in its decision, which may, where appropriate, lead to interests that outweigh the best interests of the child , no matter how important that interest must be a first-order consideration when weighing up interests.


5.4
The Court of Appeal stated first and foremost that the parties to the oral procedure had reached an agreement with regard to the division of the Christmas holiday proposed by the mother , namely: that the children both alternately stay with the mother for two weeks during the Christmas holidays and the other with the father , the even years with the mother and

the odd years with the father . The Court of Appeal will annul the contested decision on this point and, to that extent, decide again in accordance with what the parties have agreed.


5.5
The father amended his appeal request for oral hearing . He asks the court to determine the primary residence of the children with him and to determine an access arrangement for every two weeks from Friday to Monday from school to the mother's school .

In the alternative, the father requests - if co-parenting is maintained - to move the changeover day to Monday and thereby provide a mandatory framework in the form of a penalty .

The father has withdrawn his other requests .


5.6
The mother argues that co-parenting is not in the best interests of the minor2. A week is too long for him. When the minor2 was not with the father for a whole week it went well. Now that he has been with the father for a week , he has difficulty dealing . On Wednesday, the changeover day, the minor2 does not want to go to school. Moving from the changeover day to Monday is not possible for the mother in view of her work. the minor2 wants to spend less with the father . Changing the changeover day does not change this.

The communication between the parties is severely disrupted and in recent years has occurred there is no improvement. The guardian ad litem has, besides co-parenting , parallel parenting advice to communication through the family guardian and care for the children .

Now that consultation between the parents is not possible and the father refuses any form of assistance , the mother believes that there should be no co-parenting in the light of the advice of the guardian ad litem . The consultation between the parents is then kept to a minimum. There will be fewer problems and there will be peace for the children .

According to the mother , the fact that the minor2 does not send certain signals to the father is not due to a loyalty conflict , but because the minor2 does not feel free to tell the father how he feels.


5.7
The father argues that the mother involves the children in her struggle.

D, an expert in the field of parental alienation , has analyzed the file of the parties and concludes that an access arrangement whereby the children spend most of their time with the mother will only reinforce the dynamics whereby the father is expelled from their lives. According to the father, that is the opposite of what the children need.

According to the father , the mother has driven a wedge between him and the minor1 by consistently putting him in a bad light. The father and the minor1 have always had a pronounced positive relationship with each other. The fact that the minor1 had refused contact with the father for months, for no valid reason, indicates a serious form of parental rejection , although it was not yet deeply rooted.

The fact that the mother participated in co-parenting is due to judicial intervention whereby the guardian ad litem is instructed to do research , not to an intrinsic behavioral change at the mother . As soon as the pressure from third parties falls away, it is to be expected that the mother will reactivate her efforts.

The father considers co-parenting to be in the best interests of the children , but at present this does not offer the children sufficient protection and there is a significant risk that their development will be further jeopardized. That is why the father proposes to determine the main residence with him and to establish an access arrangement with the mother .

Since 6 March 2019, the minor2 has just returned to school on the changeover day.

the minor2 has a very close relationship with the father just like the minor1. the minor2 shows no deviant behavior when he is with the father .

The father requests the court to take all appropriate measures to ensure contact / interaction between him and the children and a healthy development of the children .

The father requests that the changeover day be changed to Monday. It gives the children more peace to change after the weekend than if this happens in the middle of the week. It is up to the mother to show that this is not possible for her due to the work.


5.8
The guardian ad litem in its report of October 1, 2018 the following advice:

(...)

In my opinion, the following access arrangement is in the interest of the children:

 Both children during the even weeks with the father and the odd weeks with the mother , with Wednesday as the changeover day.

(...)

What both children need is real rest. (...)

Offering this rest is mainly in the hands of both parents . Parents and children do need help with this (...).

(...)

At the hearing, the guardian ad litem stated:

She has not been in contact with the children since the investigation . The problems that are now being discussed already played a role. The minor2's problem of going to school on Wednesday did not play at the time. It is not clear whether this is due to Wednesday as a changeover day. Both parents request that the main residence be determined by the parent in question and that they establish a weekend arrangement with the other parent . According to the guardian ad litem is co-parenting just a protective factor against older detachment .

There was a time when the children found it very difficult to go to the father . It is understandable that this has given the father fear. The children love both parents and miss both parents . At the time of the investigation there was no question of parental detachment , but it was lurking.

The advice given at the time also includes help for the children , but according to the guardian ad litem it is essential that the parents receive help. The communication between parties causes a lot of stress for both parties and could be better through an intermediary, for example within a supervision order .


5.9
For the purposes of the oral procedure, the Council stated that although the children are trapped between the parents , their development is nevertheless positive and that their relationship with both parents is pretty good. The children show that they love both parents .

At the time of the custody, the GI did not see any opportunities to bring the parents to cooperation. Independently of each other, both parents take excellent care of the children .

According to the council , the children do not need conversations, but want clarity and want to know where they stand. The children take steps when there is clarity. Knots must be made and if the parents cannot do that, the court must do so. The children have no interest in turning things upside down at the moment. The co-parenting and the main residence serve as the board not to be changed.


5.10
On the basis of the documents and the oral procedure, the Court of Appeal considers itself sufficiently informed to be able to make a decision.

hearing the minor2 / appointment of special liquidator


5.11
With regard to the mother 's request to hear the minor2, or to re- appoint C as the guardian ad litem, the court considers as follows.

the minor2 is nine years old. The guardian ad litem has declared at the hearing that it is very difficult in a situation like this, the child told, because kids really like both parents make happy wishes. In a situation like this, it can be very difficult for the child to give his true authentic opinion, especially for a judge. The child can get stuck if he tells the judge a truth that may not be the truth in his heart.

In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal does not consider it to be in the interests of the minor2 to have him heard by the court in this case.


5.12
The Court of Appeal will not proceed to appoint a special liquidator .

Pursuant to Article 1: 250 to the right, when in matters concerning the care and upbringing, or the ability of the minor , the interests of the authority responsible parent or guardian conflict with those of the minor , a special appoint the receiver to represent the minor in this matter both in and out of court, if the court deems this necessary in the interests of the minor , taking into account in particular the nature of the conflict of interests.

When answering the question whether the appointment of a guardian ad litem is appropriate, the minor's interest must be the first consideration in court. The appointment of a guardian ad litem should not, however, take place with the general aim of protecting the minor 's interests . In answering that question, the judge has a great deal of discretion (Supreme Court November 23, 2012, ECLI: NL: HR: 2012: BY3968 ).


5.13
Regardless of whether there is a conflict of interest between the parents and the minor2, the Court of Appeal does not consider it to be in the interest of the children to reappoint a guardian ad litem.

The guardian ad litem at first instance carried out extensive research into the situation of the children and reported on it on 1 October 2018.

Furthermore, until recently the GI was involved with the children . This involvement has recently ended because minderjarige1 and minderjarige2 no longer in their development are threatened .

In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the children now need clarity and that they do not currently benefit from the appointment of a guardian ad litem .

main residence


5.14
The father has requested that the principal residence of the children be determined with him.

The Court of Appeal, however, sees no reason to change the main residence of the children in what the father has put forward in support of his request and will ratify the contested decision on this point.

distribution of care and upbringing duties


5.15
The Court of Appeal considers an equal distribution of care and upbringing tasks between the parents in the interests of the minor1 and the minor2. The investigation of the guardian ad litem shows that there are no compelling reasons that could form an obstacle to dealing with (one of) both parents .

Both children indicate that they love both the father and the mother and both children indicate that they miss the mother when they are with the father and vice versa.

Both parents are able to take care of the children .

Both the council and the guardian ad litem consider it to be in the interest of the children that peace and clarity be achieved. Both advise a visitation arrangement whereby the children spend the same amount of time with both parents .

In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision on this point, whereby the Court emphasizes that, if necessary, both parents must give permission for assistance to the children .

changeover day


5.16
With regard to the father 's request to move the changeover day from Wednesday to Monday and to attach a penalty to this, the court refers to paragraph 6.10 in the order of 17 April 2018 of the Overijssel District Court, Almelo court, and makes this his own.

The father 's request in the incidental appeal is rejected to that extent.


6 The conclusion
in the principal and incidental appeal

On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will confirm the contested decision, to the extent that it is subject to its judgment, except with regard to the division of the Christmas holidays.


7 The decision
The court of appeal, having the principal and the incidental appeal:

confirms the order of the court of Overijssel, seat Almelo, of

December 3, 2018 to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court, except for the division of the Christmas holidays,

and to that extent again having:

poses as distribution of the Christmas that the children alternately in even years throughout the Christmas holidays at the mother stays and in odd years the whole Christmas break at the father ;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. A. Smeeïng-van Hees, H. Phaff and G. van de Beek and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 6 August 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 6331