Content indication
Extension authorization for out-of- home placement now confirms that it is necessary in the interest of the care and upbringing of the children .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-03-12
Publication date
2019-03-18
Case number
200.243.286 / 01 and 200.242.981 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 3234
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 4362
Legal reference
Youth Act 1.1
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

case numbers: 200.243.286 / 01 and 200.242.981 / 01

Court case numbers: C / 15/271765 JU RK 18-496, C / 15/271764 / JU RK 18/495, C / 15/258590 / JU RK 17/745 and C / 15/272412 / JU RK 18-623

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 12 March 2019 concerning

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: AJJ van der Heiden in Den Helder, the Netherlands

and

the certified institution Youth & Family protectors,

established in Haarlem,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following are considered as stakeholders:

- the father (hereinafter referred to as: the father );

- the minor A (hereafter referred to as: child A);

- the minor B (hereafter referred to as: child B).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the decisions of the juvenile court in the Noord-Holland court, location Alkmaar, (hereinafter referred to as: the juvenile court ) of 17 April 2018 and 26 April 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
On 11 July 2018 the mother appealed against the aforementioned decision of 17 April 2018 and on 23 July 2018 the mother appealed against part of the above-mentioned decision of 26 April 2018.


2.2
On 19 September 2018, the GI filed a defense in the case with case number 200.242.981 / 01.


2.3
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- in both cases a letter from the father of 9 September 2018, received on 17 September 2018;

- in the case with case number 200.243.286 / 01 a letter from the GI of 16 November 2018 with appendices, received on 20 November 2018.


2.4
The oral hearing of the above cases took place on November 29, 2018. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the GI, represented by two youth protectors involved in the case ;

- the father ;

- the council , represented by Mrs. DM van Dijk.


2.5
The mother withdrew her request in the case with case number 200.243.286 / 01 at the hearing on appeal. With the consent of the parties, the procedural documents in the procedure with case number 200.243.286 / 01 also form part of the file in the procedure with case number 200.242.981 / 01.


3 The facts

3.1
From the now broken relationship of the mother and the father (hereinafter collectively also: the parents ) are born:

- child A at the place of birth in 2008, and

- child B in 2009 at the place of birth (hereinafter collectively referred to as: the children ).

The father has recognized the children . The parents exercise joint custody of the children .


3.2
The children have been under the supervision of the GI since 22 May 2012 .

The supervision order was last extended, by the contested decision, to 22 May 2019.


3.3
The children have been placed out of the house day and night since 19 September 2017 on the basis of an authorization to that effect. The authorization was last extended, by the contested decision, to 22 May 2019.

From 19 September 2017 to the end of October 2017, the children stayed in crisis shelter . Since the end of October 2017 they have been staying at an institution for observation and diagnostics.


3.4
The contact between the children and the mother is given the following written instructions from 5 July 2018. The mother and children have contact once every two weeks. One time this contact is by telephone and the other time a two-hour supervised contact. By order of the juvenile court judge in the Noord-Holland District Court (Alkmaar location) of 30 August 2018, the woman's requests for revocation of the written designation of 5 July 2018 and for establishing a more intensive contact arrangement with the children were rejected.


3.5
The contact of the father with the children is designed in a scheme with a cycle of four weeks. In the first weekend both children stay with the father , in the second weekend one child , in the third weekend again both children and in the fourth weekend the other child . When the children are together with the father , the father takes them out of school on Friday and he takes the children to school on Monday morning . When one of the children stays with the father , the father picks upthe child in question leaves school on Friday and returns her to the institution on Saturday evening. The parenting support comes to the father's home when both children are staying with him. The parenting support will then observe for two hours on Saturday or Sunday and answer questions from the father . The father lives with his girlfriend girlfriend.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, insofar present appeal is important, at the specific request of the GI authorization for court custody of the children to stay or a provision for day and night setting and then in a semi foster care , extended until 22 May 2019.


4.2
The mother requests, with the annulment of the contested decision in that regard, primarily to reject the GI 's request for an extension of the children's placement authorization, or to grant it for a period of six months, or alternatively a to make a decision that the Court of Appeal considers correct.


4.3
The GI asks the mother to declare inadmissible, or at least to reject her request, and to confirm the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision
In the case with case number 200.243.286 / 01:


5.1
Since the written instruction that was the subject of the dispute has since been overtaken by a new written instruction , the mother has withdrawn the appeal against this contested decision. The complaints made against the contested decision therefore no longer need to be examined. The court will declare the mother inadmissible in its appeal.

In the case with case number 200.242.981 / 01:


5.2
At the discretion of the court is as to whether the grounds for extending the authorization to home placement of children were available on site at the time of the disputed land and whether it is currently (still) present.


5.3
Under Article 1: 265b, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (Civil Code) to juvenile court , the certified institution under Article 1.1 of the juvenile law, which is responsible for the execution of supervision orders , upon request, authorize the minors during the day and to place them out of the house overnight if this is necessary in the interest of the care and upbringing of the minor or to examine their mental or physical condition.

In accordance with Article 1: 265c, paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the juvenile court may, at the request of the certified institution, extend the duration of the authorization for out-of- home placement by one year at most.


5.4
The mother argues that the court has wrongly ruled that the placement of the children in the home is necessary in the interests of their care and upbringing, because the parents , in particular the mother , have so far been unable to make the children feel that they can have no-contact contact with both parents . The court wrongly ruled that the GI 's view that the children 's perspective is not with mother is shared by the court, the mother said . The GIhas reduced the number of contact moments without explaining why and the mother has not been given any points for improvement for herself. The GI is biased and the contact between the father and the children continues to expand. The out-of- home placement is no longer in the interest of the children . The cause of the problems of the children is the free view of the father in sexual sphere. The mother has made two reports against the father and these cases are still being dealt with by the police. From the reports ofpsychological investigations into both children show that they have above average psychosexual knowledge in the social-emotional field . The children also display cross-border behavior and there appears to be issues of attachment and loyalty .

The mother has stopped discussing her concerns about care and upbringing by the father with the children . It also does not burden the children (anymore) with adult problems. Reports from the (supervised) contact show that the mother expresses himself positively about the father and does not respond to intrusive questions from the children . The mother is willing to exchange information with the father . Her contact with the children can and must be extended, so that the children can be slowly prepared for re- placement at themother . At the hearing, the mother also indicated that it might be possible to work towards a co-parenting arrangement with the father . The mother wants the communication between her and the father to improve and the GI has never focused on improving communication between the parents . In the light of those circumstances, the contested decision must be annulled, according to the mother .


5.5
The GI defends itself as follows. Since 2012 the children have been supervised . The supervision order aims to parents to support the communication and the making of a care arrangement . Work is also being done to increase the parenting skills of the parents and in particular the skills of the mother . In order to realize this, the mother has received outpatient support from Parlan and there is a family admission of the mother and the childrenbeen to De Bascule. In September 2017, the GI authorization to outplacement called after the mother , despite a written instruction to do so, did not cooperate in the care arrangements of the father with the children . She did not cooperate with this because she suspected sexual cross-border behavior from the father towards the children . To this presumption of mother to investigate has Parlan in January 2018 a psychosexual examination in childrendecreased, from which it was concluded that the children have above average psychosexual knowledge and exhibit cross-border behavior. It could not be established or excluded that they have this knowledge from their own experiences. In addition, Parlan has conducted a diagnostic study showing that the children are dealing with attachment and loyalty issues that show problems in their social- emotional development . The children need an educator who can match their specific parenting needs. The mother is difficult to deal with child behavior B and has problems coordinating with and connecting with the children .

Extending the authorization for out-of- home placement is necessary, because a neutral place can reduce the loyalty problem of the children and the children need a stable, structured environment in which their behavior and emotions are adequately responded to. It is also important that the children receive treatment for processing major events and that they learn emotion-regulation strategies and social skills. This requires a stable and neutral place. The contested decision must therefore be upheld, according to the GI.


5.6
The father is in under 2.3 mentioned letter and hearing appeals the accusations of the mother towards sexually deviant behavior vigorously contests. In addition, like the GI, he referred to the findings based on the personality tests and the psychosexual tests that Parlan conducted on the children .

The placement of the children at institution has a positive impact on the children and they have shown positive development and growth since the placement . The father is open to allowing the children to live with him in the long term and is working on this with the GI and institution.


5.7
At the hearing on appeal, the Council advised it to ratify the contested decision. The Council considers it necessary that the authorization to place the children out of the home is maintained. The children are currently in place at the institution and as long as their perspective is not clear, they should stay there. The mother is insufficiently able to provide the children with the care and upbringing they need. This means that their perspective is no longer with the mother , according to the council .


5.8
The court considers as follows.

The following emerged from the documents and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal. child A and child B are vulnerable children . They experienced a lot because of the uneasy situation before but also after the divorce of the parents in 2011. After the divorce the children had no contact with the father for a year . In 2012, because there were concerns about the development of the children because of the conflict of loyalty as a result of the struggle between the parents , a supervision order waspronounced. From 2012 to 2015, there has been a co-parental arrangement between the parents . This scheme was discontinued in August 2015 due to the alcohol problem of the father . The children went to live with the mother at that time and a guided contact arrangement was established with the father . This contact was temporarily stopped in July 2016.

From October 2015 to October 2016 Ambulatory Youth Assistance was deployed at the mother's home. This was concluded positively. After this, the mother and children were admitted to De Bascule from January 29, 2017 to March 24, 2017 for a family admission. This family admission has shown that, due to her own problems, the mother has difficulty giving the children the stable upbringing they need. For this reason, the family admission was stopped early so that the mother could receive follow-up treatment focused on her emotion regulation . After the family admission at De Bascule is closed, the mother is at homeassistance from the Opvoedpoli. In the summer of 2017, the mother received suspicions of sexual cross-border behavior from the father towards the children , on the basis of which she stopped contact with the father . This is despite a written instruction in which she was summoned to cooperate in the care scheme . On September 19, 2017, the children were placed in a crisis foster family . On 26 October 2017 they were transferred to an institution where they are currently still staying.


5.9
The current behavioral problems of the children are the result of various circumstances. From the report of the psychological examination of Parlan from the end of January 2018 (production 6 with the appeal in the case with case number 200.242.981 / 01; hereinafter: the psychological examination of Parlan) the following is apparent.

child B had a lot of stomach pain as a baby and therefore cried a lot. She was ultimately diagnosed with lactose intolerance. This difficult start has probably influenced the basic bond with the parents . When child B was four years old, she went to special primary education, because she was not doing well in mainstream education. Due to behavioral problems at home, child B was admitted to the children's day clinic in Triversum from November 2015 to February 2016 , where she was diagnosed with ADHD. Medication (Dexamfetamine) makes her calmer and less angry . She has been with another child since her stay at the institutionwalked away once. child B has attachment and loyalty problems as a result of stress with adult problems by the parents . For child B it is necessary to be offered structure, clarity and boundary from its environment . In addition, she needs a lot of support in regulating her emotions .

child A was born prematurely at twenty-six weeks, as a result of which she experienced many hospital admissions in her first years of life. This may have had an impact on her basic adhesion. child A suffers from a negative self-image and does not know well when she can and can vent her heart. Child A, partly due to a past in which she was bullied, has trouble making contact with peers and therefore went to the Kids Club.

child A seems to be very concerned about the mother and expresses herself positively about the mother and is very loyal to her. About the father to child A is more mixed and negative expression; she doesn't quite know what she's got for him. During the contact moments, however, one sees that child A and the father respond well to each other and are happy to see each other. child A benefits from an emotionally stable guidance figure , so she emotionally utilization and it can affective level, independence and individuality development .


5.10
In view of all the above considerations, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the grounds for the placement of the children in the home were present at the time of the contested decision and are still present. It follows from the above that the children are vulnerable due to their own problems and have had to deal with an unpredictable home situation due to the problems between the parents and the problems of the parents themselves. The mother cannot put the interests of the children first, even when the GI explicitly points out to her by means of a written instruction. For example, on 10 October 2018, despite a written instruction to that effect on 9 October 2018, she nevertheless came to an appointment of the children at the GGD, while the father would supervise the children there . This caused a lot of tension with the children . The children need educators who can meet their specific educational needs so that they can develop optimally . At the time of the contested decision, but also at the present time, it appeared that the mother is insufficiently capable of giving the children a ' parent plus' environmentwhat the children need. The mother was offered help in various ways , but without adequate results. Whether the father is capable of doing this is still being investigated. For this reason, the court and the GI and the council are of the opinion that in the interest of the care and upbringing of the children it is necessary to place the children out of the house during the day and night. The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.


5.11
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

in the case with case number 200.243.286 / 01:

declares the mother inadmissible in her request;

in the case with case number 200.242.981 / 01:

ratifies the decision whose appeal, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court.

This decision was made by HA van den Berg, J. Kok and WK van Duren, in the presence of WJ Boon, as clerk of the court, and was publicly pronounced by the oldest counsel on 12 March 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 859