Content indication
Appointment of special liquidator ; minority interest with one of its legal representatives.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-03
Publication date
2019-11-25
Case number
200,261,829
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.261.829

(case number court Gelderland 341952)

decision of 3 October 2019

on the request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem

the father ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal, hereinafter referred to as: the father ,

attorneys: WAM Maatman-Abarbanel in Buren and LL.M.

CTBJ Libosan-Besjes in Heumen,

and

the mother ,

living at home,

defendant on appeal, hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: W. Ploeg in Nieuwegein.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decisions of the Gelderland District Court, Arnhem, of 15 October 2018 and 22 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number. The decision of 22 March 2019 is hereinafter referred to as 'the contested decision'.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

the appeal with productions, including a request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem , received on 14 June 2019, and
the defense.

2.2
On 5 August 2019 the minor child referred to below was heard by the court in the absence of parties with regard to the request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem .


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 8 August 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. No one appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board .


3 The facts

3.1
Parties are the parents of child , born on the date of birth 2005 in place. The parties are jointly charged with custody of the child . child has his main residence with the mother .


3.2
By order of October 15, 2018 is as juvenile court in Arnhem court as interim care arrangements between the father and child determined that the father from November 1, 2018 guided dealing with child at the Association House to place, the exact dates, times and duration mutual consultation with the Omgangshuis will be determined and until that time there will be telephone contact as well as contact via Whatsapp and mail between child and father , the parents given the opportunity to Entréa acounseling process Parenting After Divorce (ONS) or a similar counseling program to follow, and any further decision taken.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested - enforceable explained in stock - order the juvenile court as a scheme for the distribution of the care and upbringing between parents determined that within four months after giving the court the contested will be working order for a system whereby child the first three weekends a month from Friday 18:00 at the father resides, the father child to the mother returns and vacations and holidays by agreement between the parents are divided. During this period, the father serves a child's football match or training three times to be visited, after which the father and child can first undertake something together for a few hours, then a part of the day and then a whole day , after which they can work towards an overnight stay and then entire weekends with the father , the process costs in the sense that each party is compensated bear the own costs, and reject the more or otherwise requested.


4.2
The dispute in the main proceedings concerns the division of care and upbringing duties between the parents with regard to the child .


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Article 1: 250 of the Dutch Civil Code states - in brief - that when the matters concerning the care and upbringing of the minor the interests of the parents charged with custody conflict with those of the minor , a special guardian ad litem can appoint to represent the minor both in and out of court. In answering the question whether the appointment of a guardian ad litem is appropriate, the interests of the minor are paramount.


5.2
child has repeatedly and in front of various parties, also during the conversation with the court on 5 August 2019, announced that he does not want contact with the father .

The father wants to continue the contact with the child . According to him, child wants that too and he would have told the father this during a contact at the Omgangshuis at the end of 2018 , but the child of the mother should say that he does not want contact with the father .

According to the mother it is the child 's wish that he no longer wants to see the father and she has not influenced him in that. According to the mother , the father has difficulty with the increased assertiveness of a child , the child has reached the age of discovering other interests and activities, and it is counterproductive that the father keeps insisting on frequent contact with him.

The father and mother agree that the child is in a conflict of interest and that the appointment of a guardian ad litem is appropriate.


5.3
The court rules as follows.

Since the mother made a report to Veilig Thuis in December 2017 that the child would not be safe with the father , the relationship between the father and child has come under pressure. Although research from Veilig Thuis does not reveal any concerns about the safety of the child at the father's home, despite the help provided, it has not been possible to normalize intercourse . Now child in the conversation with the court has told that he is thefather does not want to see, while on previous occasions he has indicated that he would like to see his father and the fact that both the father and the mother give a different version of the course of the earlier intercourse , he has now been seen in every case a conflict with the father . However, the Court of Appeal does not exclude the possibility that a child may also have a conflict with the mother : as a child , the mother feels negatively about dealing with the fatherIf that is not the case, then he will end up in a conflict of loyalty and it is likely that he will want to “get out of it” by taking the position of the mother with whom he lives. Now that it is clear that a child has a conflict of interests with one of its legal representatives, both parents want the appointment of a guardian ad litem and the court does not have the necessary psychological and (ortho) pedagogical knowledge to be able to determine whether this conflict now exists with the father or with the mother is the appointment of onespecial guardian with a psychological background.

The court will as guardian ad litem appointed:

C. Eggermont

orthopedagogue

The Deventer family business

Single 10

7411HV DEVENTER

06 50909266

info@defamiliezaakdeventer.nl


5.4
If one of the parties has well-founded objections to the appointment of this person as a guardian ad litem , this must be made known to the court in writing and with reasons, within one week of today.


5.5
The court asks the guardian ad litem after two or, if necessary more, conversations with the child to answer the following questions:

Is there a problem of loyalty with the child ?

What is the authentic wish of child with regard to dealing with the father ?

If a child wants to have contact with the father , how would he want it to be implemented?

What other observations or advice are important for the assessment of this case?

It would be good for a child if the mother and father each took care of the delivery and collection for these conversations.


5.6
The court of appeal will stay the proceedings and await the results of the investigation of the guardian ad litem. The court requests the guardian ad litem to send a report of its findings to the court in time, but no later than January 10, 2020.


6 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

appoints a guardian ad litem for the minor child , born on

25 March 2005 in Nieuwegein:

C. Eggermont

orthopedagogue

The Deventer family business

Single 10

7411 HV DEVENTER

06 50909266

info@defamiliezaakdeventer.nl
determines that if one of the parties has well-founded objections to this appointment, this must be made known to the court in writing within one week of today;

requests the guardian ad litem to report and advise the court in writing on the questions formulated under legal consideration 5.5 by 10 January 2020 at the latest ;

determines that the clerk of this court will send a copy of the report of the guardian ad litem to the parties;

stipulates that parties can respond in writing up to two weeks after the report of the guardian ad litem at the latest , after which the case will be dealt with at a hearing to be determined or further dealt with on the documents unless the court, whether or not based on a motivated request decides otherwise from one of the parties;

calls on the lawyers of the parties to inform the court clerk of the court as soon as possible after receipt of the report of the guardian ad litem that their prevent dates are from March to May 2020 ;

determines that the father 's lawyer will make (a copy of) the procedural documents available to the guardian ad litem as soon as possible after the date of this order ;

determines that the investigation will be conducted by the expert under the leadership of the member of the Court of Appeal JB de Groot, LL.M.

determines that the expert may turn to the aforementioned supervisory director for questions or comments regarding the investigation ;

stipulates that parties must address their information and requests to the supervisory director.

keeps every further decision.

This decision was made by mrs. JB de Groot, R. Feunekes and CM Schönhagen were signed in the absence of the chairman by Feunekes, assisted by JM van Gastel-Goudswaard as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 3 October 2019 .

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 8071