Content indication
Confirmation of judgment with improvement of grounds. Conviction of the accused with regard to repeated committing fornication of two children entrusted to his care . Reliability of the declarant. Minimum proof. Support certificate. Rejection of (conditional) request to the complainant. No sole or decisive evidence.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-29
Publication date
2019-12-05
Case number
21-006682-15
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
Department of criminal law

Parquet number: 21-006682-15

Ruling dated November 29, 2019

Contradiction

Judgment of the Multiple Chamber of Criminal Cases of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal, seat Leeuwarden referred to the appeal, brought against the judgment of the Central Netherlands court of 20 November 2015 with public prosecutor's office number 16-659744-13 in the criminal case against

suspect ,
born at place of birth on date of birth 1990,

living at home.

The appeal
The suspect appealed against the aforementioned judgment.

Investigation of the case
This judgment was given in connection with the investigation at the court hearings of the court of 19 April 2019 and 15 November 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the investigation at the court hearing at first instance.

The Court of Appeal has taken cognizance of the Advocate General's claim that the defendant should be sentenced in respect of what was charged as a conditional prison sentence for a period of 9 months, with a probationary period of 3 years. The same special conditions must be set as stated in the judgment, namely probation supervision and a prohibition of contact with the victims. The claims of the injured parties must be fully allocated, plus the statutory interest and with the imposition of the compensation measure. This claim was submitted to the court after reading.

The Court of Appeal has also taken cognizance of what has been put forward by the accused and his counselor, CB Stenger, LL.M.

The judgment whose appeal
By judgment of 20 November 2015, against which the appeal is being lodged, the court sentenced the accused for repeated sexual abuse of two children entrusted to his care to a suspended prison sentence for a period of 6 months, with a probationary period of 6 months. 3 years. It is stipulated that the suspect is placed under the supervision of the probation service and he is a contact prohibitionimposed. The claim of the injured party injured 1 has been allocated up to an amount of € 2,039 and the claim of the injured party injured 2 has been allocated up to an amount of € 1,000. The claim to grant statutory interest and to impose the compensation measure has been granted in both cases. For the rest, the court rejected the claims of the injured party 1 and the injured party 2.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the court has made a correct decision with regard to the statement of evidence and that the judgment can be upheld to that extent, but that the grounds of that decision need to be improved in parts. In addition, the judgment needs to be supplemented with regard to the defenses that have been appealed and the further investigation that has been conducted. Furthermore, with regard to the special conditions imposed by the court and the decision regarding the claims of the injured parties, the court comes to a different decision than the court. In that respect the judgment will therefore be set aside.

Considerations regarding the evidence
Defense position

It was argued by and on behalf of the accused on appeal that the accused should be acquitted of the accused. During the entire proceedings, the defendant denied that he committed sexual abuse with injured person 1 (hereafter: injured person 1) and injured person 2 (hereafter: injured person 2) and, according to the defense, there is no legal and convincing evidence to the contrary. The only evidence is the injured party's statement 1 and there are reasons to believe that her statement is not reliable and / or unbelievable. Moreover, since the file does not contain independent means of evidence that support the statement of the injured party 1, the required minimum of evidence is not met and acquittal must follow, according to the counselor .

Position of the public prosecutor

The Advocate General has taken the position that the statement of the injured party 1 can be considered reliable and that there is sufficient evidence to support her statement. The Advocate General therefore considers that sufficient legal and convincing evidence is available to be able to arrive at a statement of evidence.

Legal framework

The legal framework regarding the legal minimum of evidence such as that on p. 2 of the judgment is correct. The essence of this is that the question whether the minimum of evidence is met cannot be answered in a general sense, but requires an assessment of the specific case. The abuse is not required to be supported by other evidence; it is sufficient for the victim's statement to be sufficiently confirmed on other points in other means of evidence.

Court judgment

The Court of Appeal, together with the court and the advocate general, is of the opinion that both the injured person 1 and the injured person 2 can be proved legally and convincingly. In addition to the court's assessment on p. 4 and 5 of the judgment, the court considers the following as follows.

The court has rightly considered that injured person 1 stated on 27 September 2011 in detail and that that statement contains no inexplicable contradictions. The interrogation was conducted in a child-friendly studio by a certified studio interrogator .

In response to requests from the defense on appeal, the statement made by injured person 1 on 27 September 2011 was examined by an expert. The expert - Drs. J. van der Sleen - has been appointed by the court's commissioner to advise on the realization of the studio interview, the way in which it has been conducted and the question what can be said about the expertise of the expert reliability of the statements made. To this end, the expert has received the file and the audiovisual registration of the hearing of the injured party 1 in the child-friendly studio. To be able to say something about the value of the statement, the analysis does not only look at the content of the statement of the child, but also to the history of that statement. With regard to the content of the statement about the alleged crime, the expert looked at completeness, accuracy and consistency. With regard to the origin of the statement of a child about a sexual offense, it has been investigated whether there are real scenarios that may have led to the statement, while the alleged sexual offense did not occur or did not occur in the manner described in the statement (alternative scenarios).

The conclusion drawn by J. van der Sleen after the investigation and as included in the report of 30 July 2019 drawn up by her:

"There are no serious problems with the content of the injured party's declaration 1. Her statement is not incomplete for a six-year-old, there are no major problems with the accuracy of her statement, nor are there major problems with the consistency of her statement. There is an unclear point about the availability of candy for the children . Mother states that there was always candy on the table, indicating that it is strange that children perform sexual acts with the suspect (the court understands: the suspect) for sweets.

On the basis of the file as it currently stands, I also find no support for the possibility that the statement of the injured party 1 was entirely caused by conscious or unconscious influence. The value of the part of the interrogation in the child-friendly interrogation studio after the directing visit around 'pee from the pecker of the suspect' cannot be determined in terms of value, because this was achieved by steering. This does not, however, affect the value of the injured party's statement 1 in the child-friendly interview studio until the directing visit. Also, I find no support for the possibility that the statement of injured one has come through misunderstanding created in the file, the possibility that injured one and injured two or sexually areabused but by someone other than the accused and for the possibility that the injured party 1 invented the story about the sexual acts committed by and by the accused. "

Following the pre-trial hearing on 19 April 2019, the defense was given the opportunity to ask written questions to the expert Van der Sleen, the answer to which was received by the court on 3 September 2019.

Furthermore, as a result of the pre-trial hearing on 19 April 2019, the Court of Appeal was given the decision on the audiovisual registration of the hearing of injured party 1 in the child-friendly studio. It appears from the minutes of the hearing at first instance on November 6, 2015 that the defense has also taken note of these images. The defense has been given the opportunity to (re) examine the hearing on appeal, but this has not been used.

Partly now that the Court of Appeal has been able to take cognizance of the audiovisual registration of the hearing of the injured party 1, the Court endorses the findings of the expert in that regard. The statement made by the injured party 1, both with regard to the content and the way in which it has stated, has also given an authentic impression to the court. If injured person 1 is asked at a given moment by the interrogator what she is talking about, it is clear that she must cross a threshold. She states that it is about something "very crazy". That she has an uncle and that he did something "very strange". When asked what that "crazy / weird" is, injured person 1 then tells about the abuse on his own initiative. That statement is detailed and consistent. Where necessary, it clarifies certain points or corrects the interrogator. She also clearly indicates when she no longer knows something. Later in the interrogation several times it comes back that disadvantaged 1 thinks it is 'strange' what happened, that she didn't like it, that she was afraid that the children at school would laugh at her and that when she told her father she also thought he would find her a bit "weird." This embarrassment about the event appears real to the court.

Based on the findings of expert Van der Sleen and seeing the audiovisual registration of the hearing, the court is convinced of the credibility of the injured party 1. There is no evidence that there would have been a fabricated or 'whispered' story.

Unlike the court, the court will not use the part of the statement after the directing visit, as a result of the expert's findings, for the evidence, since according to the expert the interrogation becomes a little more guiding from that moment on. This means that from the on p. 3 and 4 of the evidence included in the judgment (interrogation of the injured 1) the part of "I: And have you seen that something came out of the penis from uncle suspect?" To "G: Uncle suspect himself", is deleted.

With regard to the expert's comment that there is an unclear point regarding the availability of sweets for the children , the court notes that the mother of the injured 1 on 13 October 2015 admitted to the examining magistrate that there is always a bowl there was candy on the table that was accessible to everyone, but when she asked whether the children were allowed to pack sweets all day long, she answered: "No, they always asked (...)". That injured party 1 stated that she had to perform sexual acts on the part of the suspect in exchange for sweets, is therefore not illogical or contrary to the facts and circumstances mentioned by the mother .

Finally, the Court of Appeal, together with the court and the Advocate General, is of the opinion that the statement of the accused and the scenario raised by the defense - including that the injured 1 in connection with the divorce of her parents on input from her fathermade a false statement - is unlikely. To this end, the Court of Appeal stated that the accused stated in varying ways whether he had ever taken care of the injured person 1 and the injured person 2: in his first interrogations with the Scottish police, the defendant denied that completely, while he later indicated that it sometimes happened . On the reason why he initially denied this to the Scottish police, the suspect was questioned at the court hearing on November 15, 2019. His answers were unclear and always changing.

In addition, the Advocate General has rightly pointed to a number of circumstances that contradict the scenario of her father's deliberate influencing of injured person 1 . Her father , father , has made a statement to the police in which he states that - despite the divorce - he wants to explicitly involve the mother in the case and the interrogation and wants to do nothing without her knowledge. He also indicates that he is not concerned with criminal prosecution, but with the interests of his children and to prevent repetition. father is also not only negative about the person of the suspect and the unfounded statement of propositions to unleash a fight against the suspect, does not otherwise seem to be the case either. From this point of view, in addition to the fact that Van der Sleen also did not see any indications of conscious or unconscious influencing of the injured party 1, and the convincing impression that the statement of the injured party 1 had given to the court, the court made the denial statement of the accused pushes aside.

Conclusion

The court of appeal considers the statement of the injured person 1 credible and reliable and this statement can be used for the evidence. Her statement finds sufficient support in other evidence, as the court has considered. On the basis of the evidence as stated in the judgment - taking into account the aforementioned improvement - the Court of Appeal therefore considers it legally and convincingly proven that the defendant committed sexual abuse with the injured party 1 and the injured party 2. The fact that the babysitter witness on appeal as a witness has declared to the supervisory director that she has never noticed anything at the disadvantaged 1 or disadvantaged 2 does not change the foregoing.

The court's decision that the part "entrusted to its care and vigilance" can also be proved legally and convincingly is also correct. In view of the above, the defenses of the defense seeking acquittal of the accused are rejected.

Conditional request

The counselor argued at the hearing of the court that if the court does not get acquitted, it is necessary that injured person 1 is heard as a witness. To that end, it has argued that its statement concerns "sole or decisive evidence" and that the defense has so far not had, or at least insufficient, the opportunity to test that statement for reliability and credibility.

The Court of Appeal stated first and foremost that the defense at first instance and on appeal did indeed not have the opportunity to question the injured party 1 as a witness. The Court of Appeal rejected a previous request from the defense for this at the pre-trial session of 19 April 2019. In that context, it was considered that it was a minorwitness and that she is known to have followed EMDR therapy in the past. From her attorney's statement, it appeared that the situation of the injured party 1 was not very different at that time than at the time of the previous hearing. In the meantime a lot of time had passed: it concerned facts that would have occurred eight years before. These circumstances still apply in full. At the session of November 15, 2019, the lawyer of the injured party 1 indicated that the consequences of the abuseare still present and this is also apparent from the written victim statement that the injured person 1 himself submitted on appeal. Among other things, she writes that it is difficult for her to process the event "because there is another session and then this and then that again." The Court also weighed these circumstances against the background of the European Directive on the establishment of minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offenses, and the substantiation of the counsel 's request .

The court of appeal rejects the request to hear injured party 1 as a witness. The fact that the expert Van der Sleen of a part of the statement said that the reliability thereof cannot be established and the babysitter (witness) stated to the supervisory director that he never noticed anything of the abuse does not mean that hearing injured 1 if witness is necessary. For the rest, the counselor has not presented any new arguments compared to the session of 19 April 2019. On the basis of the file, the Court of Appeal considers itself to be the supplementary investigation that was carried out by the Statutory Auditor and that the proceedings at the hearing were sufficiently informed to decide on the questions in Articles 348 and 350 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

The fact that the defense has not been able to interrogate the injured party 1 does not prevent that statement of evidence from being used, provided that the requirements of a fair trial are met, in particular because the statement of evidence is not decisively based on that statement is based or - if the statement of evidence is based to a decisive degree on that statement - the lack of a proper and effective possibility to question the witness in question is sufficiently compensated. In answering the question whether the statement of evidence relies decisively on the statement of - in short - a witness not questioned by the defense, despite the necessary initiative, it is important to what extent that statement is supported by other means of evidence. The required proof of support must relate to those parts of the incriminating statement that the suspect disputes. Whether or not this proof of support is present is partly determined by the weight of the statement of this witness in the light of the evidence as a whole.

The Court of Appeal, together with the Advocate General, is of the opinion that there is no question that the statement of evidence is decisively based on the statement of the injured party 1. As has been considered above and as evidenced by the means of proof elaborated in the judgment, there is sufficient proof of support, also for parts that the defendant has disputed.

For the sake of completeness, the court also points out that the defense has been compensated in several respects for the fact that it was unable to interrogate the injured party 1, namely by adding the audio-visual registration of the hearing to the file, allowing expert investigation into the hearing. to give the defense the opportunity to ask the expert (additional) written questions and to have the witness heard by the supervisory director.

In view of the above, the failure to hear the injured party 1 as a witness to the use of her explanation for the evidence, as considered above, does not stand in the way.

Imposition of punishment and / or measure
The punishment to be reported below is in accordance with the nature and the seriousness of the proven evidence and the circumstances in which this was committed, also in view of the person of the accused, as was shown during the investigation at the hearing.

Regarding the imposition of sentences, the court considered:

“The suspect was guilty of cross-border sexual behavior with two young children . In determining the sentence and the sentence, the court takes into account not only the seriousness of this fact, but also the circumstances that the defendant thereby abused the trust placed in him now that these behaviors have taken place with the children of his sister and brother, at times care about these children was entrusted to him, and in an environment where the children feel safe belonged to, namely the home of their mother. By acting in this way, the suspect has compromised the physical integrity of the two victims.

The Court considers this consideration correct and accepts it.

In view of the nature and seriousness of the proven facts, the imposition of an unconditional prison sentence is reasonable. However, given the personal circumstances of the suspect - he lives in Scotland and has built a (family) life there for several years - and the fact that the facts date from more than 8 years ago, the court will, according to the judgment, receive a suspended sentence of 6 months with a probationary period of 3 years. With this punishment the court also aims to prevent the suspect from once again committing (similar) criminal offenses in the future.

Unlike the court and the advocate general, the court of appeal currently sees no reason (anymore) to impose special conditions.

Claim of the injured party injured party 1
The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 6,539.00, consisting of € 539 in material damage and € 6,000 in intangible damage. The claim is assigned in the judgment for which an appeal was made up to an amount of € 2,039 plus the statutory interest and with the imposition of the compensation measure. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of its original claim.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the proven actions of the accused. The Court of Appeal considers the damage claimed - just like the court - with regard to material damage (€ 539) and immaterial damage to an amount of € 1,500 reasonable and ready for allocation. The direct link between the proven actions and the alleged damage has become sufficiently plausible to that extent.

With regard to the other claimed non-material damage, the court of appeal does not have sufficient information to value the damage that may have occurred. Obtaining access to this information will result in a disproportionate burden on the criminal proceedings. For that reason, the injured party can therefore not be received in its claim to the extent that it is now available and can only bring its claim to the civil court.

Regarding the award of the statutory interest and the imposition of the compensation measure, the court of appeal decides in accordance with the court.

Claim of the injured party injured 2
The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 3,000.00 in non-material damage. The claim has been assigned to the judgment for which an appeal has been made up to an amount of € 1,000. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of its original claim.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the proven actions of the accused. Like the court, the court of appeal is of the opinion that the claim up to an amount of € 1,000 can be granted, plus the statutory interest. The Court of Appeal considers the claim to be reasonable and ready for allocation.

For the rest, the court of appeal - as with the claim of the injured party 1 - is of the opinion that the handling of the claim results in a disproportionate burden on the criminal proceedings. To that extent, the injured party can therefore not be received in its claim and can only bring its claim before the civil court.

To promote that the damage is compensated by the accused, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner mentioned below.

Applicable legal requirements
The Court of Appeal has considered Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 36f, 57 and 249 of the Criminal Code .

These regulations have been applied as they were valid at the time of the proven.

DECISION
The court:

Destroys the judgment appealed against with regard to the penalty imposed and the decision regarding the claims of the injured parties and does justice to that extent again.

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for the duration of 6 (six) months .

Determines that the prison sentence will not be enforced, unless the judge may later order otherwise because the suspect has committed a criminal offense before the end of a probationary period of 3 (three) years .

Claim of the injured party injured party 1
Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party to the injured party 1 in respect of the proven up to the amount of € 2,039.00 (two thousand and thirty-nine euros) consisting of € 539.00 (five hundred and thirty-nine euros) material damage and € 1,500.00 (thousand five hundred euros) of non-material damage, plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment .

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named injured person 1, an amount of € 2,039.00 (two thousand and thirty-nine euros) consisting of € 539.00 (five hundred and thirty-nine) in respect of the proven euro) material damage and € 1,500.00 (one thousand five hundred euros) non-material damage , in the absence of payment and redress to be replaced by 30 (thirty) days in custody , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment , provided that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the starting date of the statutory interest for the material damage on:

- 27 September 2011 on an amount of € 139.00 for the studio interview

- 25 February 2013 on an amount of € 400.00 for treatment, and

- May 15, 2011 for the non-material damage.

Claim of the injured party injured 2
Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party to the injured party 2 in respect of the proven up to the amount of € 1,000.00 (thousand euros) in respect of immaterial damage, plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be mentioned below up to the day of satisfaction .

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named injured person 2, an amount of € 1,000.00 (thousand euros) in respect of the proven, as compensation for non-material damage , in the absence of to replace payment and redress by 20 (twenty) days in custody , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of such custody implies the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of do not lift the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 15 May 2011.

Confirms the judgment of which the rest is appealed, with due observance of the above considerations.

Thus pointed out by

J. Dolfing, chairman,

LJ Bosch and E. Pennink, counselors,

in the presence of Mr. H. Akkerman, Registrar,

and pronounced in open court on 29 November 2019.

Mr. Pennink is unable to co-sign this judgment.

1 HR January 29, 2019 ( ECLI: NL: HR: 2019: 123 )
Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 10437