Content indication
Long-term commitment to dealing with father has not helped. Regulation has now been established whereby the GI can determine the structure to that end. 1: 253a paragraph 4 BW and 1: 377th BW.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-01-08
Publication date
2019-01-22
Case number
200.230.379 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.230.379 / 01

Case numbers court: C / 13/553499 / FA RK 13-8365 and C / 13/562699 / FA RK 14-2477 (HHo / AK)

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 8 January 2019 concerning

the father ,

living at home,

applicant in principal appeal,

defendant in an incidental appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: D. Coskun in Arnhem, the Netherlands,

and

the mother ,

living at home,

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in an incidental appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: JE de Wijn in Hoofddorp.

The following are known in his advisory procedure:

the child protection council ,

location: Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the District Court) of 15 November 2017, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
On 29 December 2017, the father appealed against the decision of 15 November 2017.


2.2
On March 13, 2018, the mother filed a statement of defense, including an incidental appeal.


2.3
Furthermore, a fax message from the mother with attachments was received at the court on 4 October 2018 .


2.4
The Chairman prior to the meeting, in the presence of the Registrar, with the below mentioned minor child A voice. The content of this conversation is briefly and concisely stated at the session.


2.5
The oral hearing took place on 11 October 2018. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by his lawyer;

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mr. WR Daalderop.

The Certified Institution Army Salvation Youth Protection and Probation Service (hereafter referred to as: the GI), which has been called up as an informant , has not appeared with a notification.


2.6
After the oral hearing, with the consent of the father and mother (hereafter jointly: the parents ), the GI was heard separately by the chairman, in the presence of the clerk, by telephone. On 23 October 2018, the Court of Appeal drew up an official report that was sent to the parents . Both parents responded by journal report of 13 November 2018.


2.7.
At the hearing on appeal, the father was also informed that the documents from first instance were not submitted in full and that the registry had previously requested this. Despite his promise in this regard at the hearing on appeal, the father 's lawyer did not send these documents after the hearing.


3 The facts

3.1
From (in 2011 by divorce dissolved ) marriage of the parents were born:

- minor 1 (hereafter referred to as: child A), in 2006, in Amsterdam;

- minor 2 (hereinafter referred to as: child B), in 2008, in Amsterdam.

child A and child B are hereinafter collectively referred to as the children .

The parents exercise joint custody of the children . The children stay with the mother .


3.2
By order of the Court of June 29, 2011 - insofar as relevant now - under the care arrangement provides that the father of the children once every two weeks from Saturday 13:00 to Sunday 19:30, and once every two weeks on Wednesdays from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.

By judgment of the court on November 15, 2013, the mother , at the request of the father , ordered to fulfill these care arrangements , on pain of a penalty .


3.3
Following a request from the mother to change the care scheme , the court ordered the council to carry out an investigation by order of 4 March 2014 . By decision of the court of 17 December 2014, the case was further dealt with pending the progress of the Amsterdam Youth Region (JBRA) supervised handling and continuation of the parents' conversations with the JeugdRIAGG. By order of the Court of June 10, 2015 provides that the father and the children fortnightly on Saturdays or Sundays dealingswith each other for three hours in the presence of the brother of the father , and the further handling of the case has been postponed.


3.4
By order of the juvenile court judge in the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ) of 10 June 2015, the children were placed under the supervision of JBRA until 10 December 2015 at the request of the Board . This supervision was subsequently extended. By order of the juvenile court from April 1, 2016, the application by the mother to the written designation of JBRA where the mother was ordered cooperate to provide the methodology divorce battledeclined, rejected.

By decision of 15 March 2017, JBRA was replaced by the GI and the supervision order was extended to 10 December 2017. By decision of this court of 29 August 2017, this decision was annulled and the request for extension of the supervision order was rejected.

By order of the juvenile court of June 15, 2018, at the request of the council , the children were again placed under the supervision of the GI for the duration of one year.


3.5
By order of 17 August 2016, the District Court instructed MEWichers to conduct an expert investigation into, among other things, the presence of (personality) disorders among the parents and their possibilities to take the needs of the children into account when implementing an access arrangement. . The mother has blocked the introduction of the results of this investigation into the procedure.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision stipulates - insofar as currently relevant - at the request of the mother that the father carries the children once every fortnight on Sundays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.


4.2
The request of the father , such as hearing appeals explained, is intended that, with annulment of the contested decision in so far, a concern railing with the children which corresponds to the initial care arrangements established by the decision of June 29, 2011 (see 3.2 for this).


4.3
The mother asks child A hearing on extending the deal with the father and the request of the father to reject. In an occasional appeal, the mother requests - as the Court of Appeal understands - to set aside the contested decision to the extent that the father interacts with the children for eight hours a month on a Saturday or Sunday in the presence of the father 's brother and his family.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The Court of Appeal finds that in his appeal, the father only submitted the judgments of the preliminary relief judge , juvenile judge and court, previously issued between the parents , a letter from the council of 8 December 2017 and a letter from the GGD Amsterdam of 9 December 2013. the court in these proceedings about two e-mail messages submitted by the mother of mr. de Wijn and mr. Coskun (production 1 for the defense), two letters from child A (production 3 for the defense on appeal) and the order of the juvenile judgeof June 15, 2018. The documents from the first instance were not provided to the court despite the promise made. The Court of Appeal nevertheless considers itself sufficiently informed and, with application of the provisions of Article 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure, will judge on the basis of the documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal.


5.2
Under Article 1: 253a paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) in conjunction with Article 1: 377th Civil Code, the court may at the request of the parents or one of them a decision on the exercise of parental authority as well as the parents themselves change the arrangement made on the ground that the circumstances have subsequently changed or that incorrect or incomplete information was used to make the decision. This amended regulation may include an allocation to each of the parents of the care and upbringing duties. The judge takes such a decision as he considers desirable in the best interests of the child .


5.3
The father takes the view that the court erred in finding that the care arrangements of June 29, 2011 should be amended to less interaction between the father and the children is in place. The mother does not comply with various court rulings and the father is powerless about this. Her actions are rewarded by adjusting the access arrangements to the detriment of the father , so that he does not get a chance to restore his bond with child A. The motherundermines contact with the authorities, aimed at restoring the relationship between the father and the children . If assistance is not deployed quickly, child B will also develop the same attitude as child A. The various statements, reports and psychological research show that there is no obstacle to dealing . A means of coercion had been in place. The father wants to talk to the mother and is open to help.


5.4
The mother argues that the children have always participated (together with the hair) in the attempts to make contact with the father a success. Children from the Knel is not an option for the mother , because it gives the father a stage to tell his story, to the detriment of the mother . The mother does not trust the father . The experience remains that the parents are not able to come together, despite many attempts from the counseling .

The father has no insight into his relationship with the children . In the decision of 25 November 2017, the court finds that there is no question of a loyalty problem with the children . The children have hardly been heard. child A is aware of the fact that she and her sister are being lived by the obligation to interact with the father . child B behaves socially and emotionally adjusted in the relationship with her father . She is afraid of her father and is in contact with her fatherdepending on the presence of child A.


5.5
During the conversation with the chairman, child A has told - very briefly - that she finds it very annoying that she has to repeat time and again that she wants no or as little contact as possible with her father .


5.6
The GI indicates that it is not possible at present to see contact between the father and the children , and certainly not to extend the scheme established by the contested decision. It would be harmful to enforce this. The GI does, however, advocate a set-up scheme, whereby guided interaction is started, so that there is a view of the father and his interaction with the children . Tips can then be given to the father . Both parents make disqualifying statements about each other. The children are stuck and are loyal to the mother . It is clear that she does not give emotional permission to the children to go to the father . child A is clear in her opinion that she does not want contact with the father , child B is less certain about this. The children are registered with Kenter Jeugdhulp for outpatient counseling , where they can share their story with a counselor. Based on the insights gained during this guidance , the most suitable system-oriented help for the family will be sought. The mother cooperates, but causes delays, because she would rather not interfere, according to the GI.


5.7
The Council considers it important that the GI is heard and given room to act for the children . The council states that it has great concerns about the long-term harmful relationship between the parents , the signs of parent alienation and the inability of the children to maintain good contact with both parents . The parents - the mother in particular - are reluctant to accept help, such as Children from the Knel. The Council also noted that social-emotional development among the children is positive. However, it is the parents' turn. They must work to improve their mutual understanding for the benefit of the children .


5.8
The court considers as follows.

The following has emerged from the documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal. The family has a long history of legal proceedings and assistance , all of which were aimed at improving contact between the children and the father . Because of the tensions between the parents , the resistance of the mother and the frustration of the father , it is impossible for the children to have unloaded contact with both parents . child A has repeatedly or explicitly indicated no or as little contact as possible with thewanting a father . Parents disagree about the frequency of contact from November 2017 to June 15, 2018, but it has been found that the father saw the children at least every two weeks, in the presence of his brother. From the start of the custody on 15 June 2018, the father saw the children every eight weeks on Sunday for eight hours, in the presence of his brother. The last contact moment was on 19 August 2018. Under the contested decision, contact could take place unaccompanied, and therefore the father 's brother was not present. childA sent a message to the mother on that Sunday after the man's arrival that she wanted to leave and the children were immediately picked up again. Since then there has been no contact between the man and the children .

Various attempts have been made to bring the parents closer together and to gain insight into the functioning of the family system, so far without any results and with the prospect of improving relationships. The woman refused to cooperate in providing assistance such as Children from the Knel and expert research , so that there is little insight into her functioning and the reasons for her attitude. With regard to the man, no obstacles to dealing with the children have emerged in the psychological examination , but it has been found that he does not always act tactically in contact with the child.children and do not know how to connect. The children are trapped between both parents and have meanwhile been registered for Kenter Jeugdhulp for outpatient counseling , whereby they can each share their story with a counselor. Based on the insights gained in this way, system-oriented therapy will be sought by the GI.


5.9
The foregoing shows that the children have a burdened past and are trapped between their parents . They lack the emotional permission of the woman for dealing with the man, and child A in particular is increasingly alienated from the man and the same threatens for child B. They are both seriously threatened in their development . child A has repeatedly indicated that she wants no or as little contact as possible with her father . Given the history, the contact between the man and the children is currently possiblenot be forced, because this would only increase the children's resistance . The aid is first turned on to see what the children need and how their relationship with the father can be successfully restored.

The basic principle here is that contact with both parents is important for every child , including those children . Although there is currently no room for (forced) contact, this means that the efforts of the GI and Kenter Jeugdhulp must continue to look for ways along which child A and child B can have untaxed and permanent contact with both parents . The process started at Kenter Jeugdhulp and the subsequent system therapy should contribute to this, paying attention to both the relationship between the parents themselves and the relationship between the man and the childrenis needed. The court of appeal will therefore (like the court) determine an access arrangement whereby the children will have an eight-hour relationship with the man once every two weeks , whereby the GI may, based on the advice of the assistance provided to the children , fill in the structure there. With the council and the GI , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the necessary commitment is required from both parents .


5.10
This leads to the following decision.


6 Decision
The court:

set aside the contested decision, in so far as it is subject to the judgment of the court of appeal, and in so far as doing so again:

determines the distribution of the care and upbringing between the parents said that as of now, the man the kids have with them every other week on Sundays from 10:00 to 18:00, with the GI guided by the opinions of the aid to the children can fill in the structure there;

declares this decision enforceable from stock;

rejects more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by MFGH Beckers, MJ Leijdekker, and RG Kemmers, in the presence of the clerk, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 8 January 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 50