Content indication
Suspension request for out-of- home placement . Request assigned, steps taken towards relocation .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-18
Publication date
2019-09
Case number
200,256,268 / 02 and 200,256,273
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

Court of Appeal case numbers 200.256.268 / 02 (suspension) and 200.256.273 (special liquidator )

(case numbers Court of the Central Netherlands 469014 (authorization of out-of- home placement ),

469015 (extension of supervision ) and 450146 (care arrangement))

decision of 18 April 2019 on the request for suspension and on

the request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem

on

applicant,

residing at residence, the applicant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: M. van Harskamp in Utrecht, the Netherlands,

and

applicant,

living at home,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: DIA Schröder, LL.M. in Utrecht,

and

the certified institution

Together Safe Central Netherlands,

established in Nieuwegein,

defendant,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the order of the Central Netherlands court, Utrecht court, of January 17, 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.

2. The appeal proceedings in the main proceedings and with regard to the request for suspension and the request for the appointment of a special liquidator


2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the notice of appeal also containing a request for suspension and a request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem with exhibits 1 to 4, received on 12 March 2019;

the defense with regard to the request for suspension and the request for

appointment of a special liquidator of the mother ;

- the defense in the main proceedings, which also relates to the application for suspension

and the request for the appointment of a special liquidator of the GI with productions 1 to

with 8;

- a fax from the GI of March 29, 2019 (return of the form at

child interview 'on behalf of child's name 1).


2.2
On April 1, 2019 is referred to as minor name child first appeared that the absence of the parents and the GI was heard by the court.


2.3
The oral hearing with regard to the request for suspension and the request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem took place on 5 April 2019.

The father appeared in person, assisted by his lawyer. R. Vermeer (mr. Schröder's office colleague) appeared on behalf of the mother . On behalf of the board for the child 's Representative Council for Child appeared. Representative 1 GI and on behalf of the GI

Representative 2 GI appeared.


2.4
After the oral treatment, the following were received with the permission of the court:

- a journal report from Mr. Van Harskamp of 12 April 2019 with one letter;

- a fax message from the GI of 15 April 2019.


3 The facts

3.1
The parents have been married to each other . The minor children of the parents are:

- name of child 1, born on date of birth at place of birth,

- name of child 2, born on date of birth at place of birth, and

- name of child 3, born on date of birth at place of birth.

This procedure is the minor name child 1.


3.2
The parental authority over name child 1 is exercised by the parents . name child 1 has lived with the father and grandparents (father's side) from August 2015 until the hereafter referred to as out-of- home placement .


3.3
By order of 29 January 2016, the juvenile court judge placed the name of child 1 in the court of Central Netherlands, seat Utrecht, under supervision . The supervision order has always been extended, most recently by the decision of 17 January 2019 to be referred to below

January 29, 2020.


3.4
The Court of Midden-Nederland, seat Utrecht, has by order of

January 25, 2018 (case number 449 716) the request of the mother regarding the care arrangements being suspended pending the results of the NIFP research. The mother 's request to change the principal place of residence of the child's name 1 was rejected in that decision.

By order dated November 19, 2018, the court further examination of the application on the care arrangements referred to the full court.


3.5
At the request of the GI , AEM Bannenberg, mental health psychologist NIFP, under the supervision of M. Engers, carried out research into concerns about the social-emotional and personality development of child's name 1 as a result of the complications following the divorce of the parents . This research was reported in the NIFP report of 16 July 2018.


3.6
In the decision of 17 January 2019, declared enforceable by stock, the Central Netherlands court, Utrecht seat:

- supervision of the name of child 1 extended to 29 January 2020;

- authorization granted for placement of the name of child 1 in a 24-hour accommodation

youth assistance from January 17, 2019 to July 17, 2019;

- an interim care arrangements adopted, stating that the completion of the building,

Instead, frequency and duration of the interaction between name child 1 and the mother through the GI is

designed;

- the GI asked the court, the council and all stakeholders for the information,

as requested under recital 5.16 of that decision;

- the handling and any further decision held until a date and time to be determined and that the registrar will call the interested parties for this.


3.7
name child 1 has been staying since date at crisis center De Dijk of Youké in Utrecht.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In these proceedings, it is appropriate to order the father 's request for a suspension of the operation of the decision of 17 January 2019, in so far as it concerns the decision to grant a child placement authorization for the name of the child 1.

The next item is the father 's request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem .


4.2
The mother makes a substantiated defense. She asks the court to reject the father's requests , costs in law.


4.3
The GI also makes a substantiated defense. It asks the court the father in the present request inadmissible, or the requests of the father to reject.


5 The reasons for the decision
with regard to the request for suspension


5.1
The appeal will suspend operation, unless the order has been declared enforceable. Pursuant to the second sentence of Article 360 ​​(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, the higher court can still suspend the operation if an appeal has been lodged against a decision that has been declared enforceable in stock.


5.2
The Court of Appeal sets the following first with reference to HR 20 March 2015, ECLI: NL: HR: 2015: 688 and HR 30 May 2008, ECLI: NL: HR: 2008: BC5012 .

(i) The applicant must have an interest in the suspension of the implementation of the decision that he has requested .

(ii) When assessing a request to suspend the enforcement of a decision, the interests of the parties must be weighed in the light of the circumstances of the case. In doing so, it must be ascertained whether, on the basis of those circumstances, the interest of the applicant in maintaining the existing situation until the appeal has been decided, outweighs the interest of his counterparty in the (continuation of) implementation of the decision. If the decision concerns the conviction to pay a sum of money, the interest of the creditor in the declaration of enforceability is in principle given.

(iii) This balancing of interests must be based on the contested decision and on the underlying findings and judgments, and the chance of the appeal being successful is in principle not taken into account.

(iv) If the court of first instance has given a reasoned decision about the enforceable declaration in stock, the applicant who wishes to change this decision will have to base his request on a manifest legal or factual error in the contested judgment or facts. and circumstances that could not be taken into account in that decision because they did not occur until after the decision, and which may justify deviating from that earlier decision.

(v) If the court of first instance did not give a reasoned decision on the request for a declaration of enforceability for stock, the requirement stated above under (iv) does not apply and a decision must be taken with due observance of the above under (i) to (iii) mentioned.


5.3
In this case, the court has given a reasoned decision about the declaration of enforceability in stock, so that points it / iv apply.


5.4
The following new facts and circumstances have the Court of Appeal take into account the weighing of interests with regard to the suspension request .

The following emerged during the oral hearing on 5 April 2019. Since the placement of the child's name 1, conversations between the child's name and the mother have started under the supervision of Youké . The intention of the GI to temporarily suspend the contacts of child 1 with father and grandparents (father's side) has not been followed. There are weekly visits by the father and grandparents to child's name 1. The intention of the GI, including from the placement of child's name1 to realize a transfer back to the mother in a neutral (treatment) place is no longer appropriate now that the mother has indicated that she no longer wants that. The GI, Youké and the parents will enter into discussions on 11 April 2019 to discuss the possibility of placing the name of child 1 with their father (and grandparents ) under conditions.

After the oral hearing, the father and the GI informed the court in writing about the outcome of this interview on request. This shows the following.

Youké is of the opinion that the out-of- home placement currently stands in the way of the counseling process because the name of child 1 fights towards the GI.

Youké sees sufficient motivation for the father and name of child 1 to offer an out-patient route. Youke has goals for outpatient counseling formulated and GI has conditions to reintegration name child made one. The letter from the GI of 15 April 2019 shows that these concern the following goals and conditions.

“Youké has formulated the following goals for the outpatient guidance :

- name child 1 and mother have found a way to have contact with each other.

Approach: System therapy; conversations with mother , name of child 1, name of employee 1 and name of employee 2.

- There is a contact person for child's name 1 who provides support in maintaining contact between mother and child's name 1.

Approach: Name employee 1 contact from Youke, IVT is seeking those from the area of name child 1 this contact (JIM) can be.

- Father , grandfather and grandmother support the contact between child 1 and mother's name .

Approach: System therapy; conversations with father , grandfather and grandmother.

- The brothers of child 1 are in contact with father and grandfather and grandmother.

Approach: This is a topic in system therapy discussions with all involved. The system therapy conversations provide clarity as to who is responsible for communication about this contact.

SAVE has set the following conditions for a transfer of child's name 1 to father , grandfather and grandmother:

Father continues the individual assistance that is assigned to him in the written instruction on his aggression regulation / impulse problem, processing of the divorce / anger towards mother .

Father and child's name 1 participate in the discussions with Youké about contact recovery with mother .

Mother cooperates with the conversations with name child 1 and Youké about contact recovery .

Father makes a plan how he informs mother about important matters concerning the name of child 1 and the frequency, given the joint authority . This does father not have to do if he finds that complicated, but can also be someone from his network.

Grandpa and grandma vz are involved in the assistance .

There is interaction with mother .

Preferably, the name of child 1 and father come with a structural proposal for contact .

name child 1 can only go back to father , grandpa and grandma vz if the following things are clear:

It is clear who the rescuer of father is and where he can start. (...).

It is clear how father can combine his work with Youké's conversations and a first interview is planned.

A first appointment is planned with mother .

There is a plan what the visits between the name of child 1 and mother will look like in the coming 2 months .

Father indicates how he will inform mother and / or who will do this and how often.

The agreement is that there will be an evaluation every two months together with Youké, father , mother , name of child 1 and SAVE and if possible with grandpa and grandma vz (...) ”


5.5
The letters from the GI and the father sent afterwards also show that the set goals and conditions are being implemented, at least that a start has been made with this. The father is on the waiting list at De Waag and he has given permission to the GI to contact De Waag. The father and mother have planned an appointment with the system therapist during the interview on 11 April 2019. With regard to the obligation to provide information from the father to the mother , Youké has indicated that she will be responsible for this in the coming two months and that during that period a plan will be drawn upfather will shape this. Grandfather and grandmother have indicated to Youké that they are willing to get their name child 1 and bring it for their conversations with the system therapist and the mother .


5.6
The court, on the basis of the foregoing that a start was made with the objective restoring contact between the mother and name child first and that in that context by the GI proposed suspension of contact between name child 1 and the father and the grandparents not has been discussed. In the meantime, all those involved have made agreements and steps have been taken that are aimed at replacing the name of child 1 with the father and grandparents with ambulatory guidance.by Youké. In the given circumstances, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the interest of child's name 1 in the suspension requested by the father outweighs the interest of the GI in the continuation of the implementation of the decision, insofar as it concerns the decision on placement . The father 's request will therefore be granted. The Court of Appeal therefore assumes that the father will continue to make every effort to meet the requirements of Youké and the GI even after this allocation .

with regard to the request for appointment of a guardian ad litem


5.7
Pursuant to Article 1: 250 of the Civil Code appoints the court before which the case is pending, if it in the interests of the minor require, at the request of an interested party or ex officio a guardian ad litem for the minor , both in and out of court , if, in matters pertaining to his care and upbringing, or the property of the minor , the interests of the parents charged with custody or one of them or of the guardian or both guardians are in conflict with those of the minor .


5.8
In view of the NIFP report and the ongoing assistance provided by Youké and the GI, in which the opinion of the name of child 1 is taken into account, as well as the fact that the name of child 1 has been able to give its own opinion, the Court considers the appointment of a special curator is not necessary in the interest of child's name at this time . The father's request directed at this will therefore be rejected.


6 The decision
The court:

suspends the operation of the order of the Midden-Nederland District Court, Utrecht seat, of January 17, 2019, in so far as it concerns the decision to grant an authorization to place the child's name out of home ;

rejects the father 's request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem.

This decision was made by mrs. MJ Stolwerk, A. Smeeïng-van Hees and

CM Koopman, assisted by the clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on April 18, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 3499