Content indication
Access control not determinable.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-12-03
Publication date
2019-12-17
Case number
200.235.934 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2017: 10670
Interim judgment: ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 701
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.235.934 / 01

Case number court: C / 15/260214 / FA RK 17-3422

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 3 December 2019 on

the woman ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: MM van Eeten in Den Helder,

and

the man ,

living at a secret address,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: JM Kers in Haarlem.

The interested party is the minor daughter below ( hereafter referred to as the minor ).

The certified institution De Jeugd- en Familiebeschermers (hereinafter referred to as: the GI) is designated as an informant .

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Haarlem,

to be called: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance

1.1
The Court of Appeal refers to and takes over what has been decided in its (interim) order of 26 February 2019. This is determined by amending the order of the Noord-Holland court of 29 July 2015 to the extent that, as a provisional access arrangement - until further decided - determined that the man picks up the minor from school every Wednesday at 2 p.m. (and if there is no school, from the woman) and returns the woman at 5:30 p.m. Furthermore, the council was asked to investigate whether a change in the access arrangements is in the interests of the minor , whereby the council was also enabled to conduct this investigationextend to a protection investigation .


1.2
The following documents were subsequently received by the court:

- a report from the council of 25 February 2019, received on 7 March 2019;

- a journal report from the woman of 1 May 2019 with appendices, received on 2 May 2019;

- an email from the GI of 9 May 2019 with an attachment, received on the same date.


1.3
The oral hearing was continued on 13 May 2019. An official report has been drawn up of this. At the hearing it was decided that the case would be stayed in order to give the woman the opportunity to inform the man of her change of request (per writ).


1.4
The following documents were subsequently received by the court:

- a journal report from the woman of 21 May 2019 with an attachment, received on 22 May 2019;

- a journal report from the woman of 29 May 2019 with appendices, received on 3 June 2019;

- an email from the GI of 25 June 2019, received on the same date;

- a journal report from the woman of 25 September 2019 with appendices, received on 26 September 2019;

- a letter from the GI of 2 October 2019 with appendices, received on 4 October 2019.


1.5
The oral hearing was continued on 9 October 2019. The following appeared at the hearing:

- the woman assisted by her lawyer;

- the man, assisted by his lawyer;

- the board , represented by Mr. V. Aelbers.

The GI indicated by the aforementioned e-mail of 25 June 2019 that it could not be present at the session.


2 The further facts

2.1
the minor , born in 2013, was provisionally placed under supervision on 25 December 2018 . It has been under the supervision of the GI since 25 December 2018 . The supervision order has been extended, most recently until December 19, 2019.


2.2
By summary judgment of the preliminary relief judge in the Noord-Holland court of 11 January 2019, the access arrangement between the man and the minor , as determined in the contested decision, was suspended pending the decision in the present proceedings at the court.


3 The further statement of reasons for the decision

3.1
When the pieces are from the report of the Board on 25 February 2019. The Board considers a visitation with the man in the best interests of the minor , because it contains no single option is considered. Before it can be investigated whether the man can play a role in the life of the minor , the council deems it necessary that the wish of the minor for this is clear and there is insight into the personal functioning of the man.


3.2
By the aforementioned journal report of 21 May 2019, the woman amended her request. She is now requesting, to the extent practicable in stock, that the contested decision should be annulled to that extent and with a corresponding amendment to the decision of the Noord-Holland District Court of 29 July 2015, determine that there will be no access arrangements between the man and the minor or take such a decision as the court of appeal deems appropriate. This is based on the fact that a contact ban has been imposed in the context of the criminal case about threats against men against women. In addition, the minor did not want to have contact at that time .

At the oral hearing on appeal on October 9, 2019, the woman requested a six-month detention, following the additional advice from the council mentioned below .


3.3
The man lodged a defense during the oral hearing on appeal of 9 October 2019. In short, the husband believes that the wife's request not to establish access arrangements should be rejected. Since he was temporarily detained at the end of 2018, he has taken positive steps. He no longer uses drugs and will start EMDR therapy. He has an administrator and is under the supervision of the probation service. He has also registered with Terwille, who have arranged a house for him and where he has a permanent supervisor . The minor also cautiously indicated that he still wanted contact. The association will of course have to be built up step by step.

Subsequently , just like the woman, following the additional advice from the council to be referred to below, the husband requested that the case be stayed for six months.


3.4
The council supplemented its advice during the oral hearing on appeal of 9 October 2019 and advised the Court of Appeal to continue the handling of the case for a period of six months. The father shows a positive line, but the situation must first become more stable. For the minor it is important that her safety is guaranteed and that, if steps are taken now, this process will not be interrupted again. This is also important for women's confidence in such a process. She must remain stable as an educator of the minor . Because the minor shows a cautious interest, the GIsee if contact is first possible by sending cards. In this way the man knows better what is going on in the life of the minor and the GI can see if he can connect with her experience. During the detention, work can be done towards contact recovery , but this does not mean that immediate contact can and will be made after six months , according to the council .


3.5
The Court of Appeal first and foremost stated that the facts and circumstances mentioned below justify a new assessment of the access arrangement .

The following has emerged from the documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal. The understanding and communication between parties has been severely disrupted for years , with the minor being exposed to domestic violence . Over the years, a report has been made regularly to the police, Veilig Thuis is often called in and several investigations have been conducted by the council . The drive frame is the GI previously been involved. Since the summer of 2018 there is no longer any contact between the man and the minor . An incident occurred in December 2018 in which the man threatened the woman , after which he was arrested and the woman and the minor were placed in a Stay group. As a result, the minor was placed under supervision on 25 December 2018 for the time being . Next, from the proven at the request of the court board released report of February 25, 2019 to the Board an access arrangement with the man at that time not in the interests of the minors considered. In the context of the criminal case, the man is a contact ban in April 2019imposed on the woman (the man appealed against this). According to the report of psychological research that was carried out by NIFP in the context of the criminal case, issued on 8 March 2019 , the man has morbid disorders in the form of ADHD, PTSD and disorders in the use of cannabis and speed. There is also a defective development of the mental faculties in the form of a personality disorder with mixed traits. Special intervention is mentioned as intervention advice, including: assisting in the establishment of medication in connection with ADHD; outpatient treatment of personality issues, including aggression regulation training part and addiction treatment.

Recent information from the GI of 2 October 2019 has shown that the man has taken great steps towards his recovery, that he is keeping to the agreements and that he appears to be learnable. the minor seems to be somewhat open to contact with her father , but this must be built up gradually and under supervision , whereby the man will have to adhere to strict conditions. In the meantime, the GI has also submitted a request for an extension of the supervision period for twelve months.


3.6
In view of the above, the man will still have to go through an intensive process. The oral treatment showed that both parents are benevolent and motivated. Until recently, the situation was very worrying as a result of the seriously disturbed understanding between parties. Very recently there have been positive developments on the part of the man. However, this is still very early and it is unclear how and in what time these developments will continue. On the side of the woman and the minor , confidence will have to grow based on the visible results of the guidanceand treatment of the man. It is positive that the man has provided insight into the NIFP report. The GI can thus better assess and guide the possibilities for a contact recovery process and thus guarantee the (emotional) safety of the minor . In the current state of affairs, however, an access arrangement can not be determined, nor is it clear whether this will be the case after a maintenance period of six months. This means that the Court of Appeal will not stay the case , grant the woman's request not to establish access arrangements and will annul the contested decision to that extent.

The GI has the ability to manage when it comes to contact recovery . In addition, the law gives the GI the option - in the long term and when opportunities are offered for this - to have an access arrangement between the man and the minor recorded in an accessible manner at the juvenile court.


3.7
This leads to the following decision.


4 The decision
The court:

set aside the order of which an appeal, to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the Court of Appeal, and in so far as it once again had:

determines, with an amendment to the order of the Noord-Holland District Court of 29 July 2015, that access rights will not apply between the man and the minor ;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by AN van de Beek, GW Brands-Bottema and PJWM Sliepenbeek, in the presence of the clerk, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 3 December 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 4449