Content indication
No contact with father now that circumstances are unknown.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-12
Publication date
2019-11-26
Case number
200.245.176 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.245.176 / 01

Court case number: C / 15/259426 / FA RK 17-3010

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 12 November 2019 concerning

the man ,

staying at place,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: initially MEG van Hout in Eindhoven, now without a lawyer.

and

the woman ,

living at home,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: MH Aalmoes in Amsterdam Southeast.

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

established in The Hague,

location: Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of Noord-Holland, location Haarlem, of 16 May 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The man lodged an appeal on 14 August 2018 against the aforementioned decision of 16 May 2018.


2.2
The woman filed a statement of defense on October 9, 2018.


2.3
In a journal report of 14 November 2018, the then lawyer of the man,

MEG van Hout in Eindhoven, withdrawn.


2.4
The oral procedure started on 28 March 2019. The treatment was then continued because the man had not appeared. Oral proceedings were resumed on 18 July 2019. The man, although summoned correctly, again did not appear at the hearing.

Appeared are:

- the woman assisted by her lawyer;

- the board represented by Mr. V. Aelbers.


3 The facts

3.1
From the now broken relationship between the man and the woman, the minor (hereafter referred to as: the minor ) was born in 2014, the place of birth. The woman only exercises authority over the minor . The man has recognized the minor .


3.2
By decision of the Haarlem District Court of 4 October 2017, the council was requested to investigate the possibility of establishing an access arrangement between the minor and the man. The written advice of the council was issued on 1 February 2018.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, the man's request to establish access arrangements between him and the minor was rejected.


4.2
With the annulment of the contested decision, the man requests that a constructive access arrangement be established between him and the minor , stating that:

- the minor first stays with the husband for four weeks in a row on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.

- the minor then stays with the husband for four weeks in a row from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.

- the minor then stays with the husband four times one weekend every fortnight from Saturday 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.

- the minor then stays with the husband once every fortnight for a weekend from Friday afternoon to Sunday evening;

- the minor spends half of his school holidays and public holidays.

In the alternative, the man requests to determine a regulation that the court of justice considers to be correct.


4.3
The wife requests the husband to be declared inadmissible in his application or to confirm the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The next item is the question whether an access arrangement should be established between the minor and the man and, if so, what access arrangement that should be.


5.2
In his appeal, the man stated that the court had wrongly rejected the request for the adoption of an access arrangement . The court has considered that for the bonding process it is necessary to work towards frequent contact and that this is not possible under the given circumstances. The man does not follow this because he wants to lay the foundation for contact with the minor right now . He disputes that frequent contact between him and the minor would not be possible. The court bases this impossibility on the man's past and on the circumstance that he would not have shown that there is stability in his life. He has worked very hard to get his life back on track and has even stayed a year longer in 'clinic', a clinic for forensic treatment of psychiatric patients. He is ready for his return to society and will soon move into his own home . In addition, he has had a stable relationship with his partner for a year now, who can give birth to a daughter at any time. He also takes care of her elderdaughter. The man does not deny that he has had a turbulent past, but states that he has amply demonstrated his understanding of his past mistakes. He has been leading a stable life without drugs and violence for several years. There are no more contraindications for interaction . the minor is entitled to, and has an interest in, contact with his father . This also applies to contact with his sister and step sister . In the coming period, in which he and his partner have a child , the man will show that he is stable and reliable. He realizes that the contact must be established and thereby accepts all assistance in the interest of theminor . The man also argues that prior to the court session the woman had made it clear that she did not want to keep the minor away from his father and that she had also taken him to court. The man then played with the minor in the hall for almost half an hour . The man intends to try ahead of the hearing at the court to get the woman to agree on the deal , said the man still in his appeal.


5.3
The woman disputes the man's propositions and argues that although the man claims that he is doing better, he does not support this in any way. It is precisely during this period that it will become apparent how the man maintains himself when he is no longer in a clinic. The woman does not doubt the good intentions of the man, but still finds it too early to take a step solely on the basis of good intentions. She never wanted to stop the contact between the man and the minor . On the other hand, she must always conclude that, in the event of contact between the man and the minor , one step forward takes two steps back. the minor Moreover, it is not yet ready for contact. Furthermore, the man's head is completely tattooed; the question is whether that is a good example for a child . The man was well aware of the first appeal session, but according to the message sent to her on Facebook, he did not appear because he thought that his tattoos would not make a good impression at the hearing, the woman said.


5.4
The council issued advice at the hearing. the minor is now five years old and is vulnerable , partly in view of his age and the poor relationship between the parents . Given the fact that the man may still be in detention, Exodus, which offers a program for dealing with detainees with their children , is an opportunity to establish contact between the minor and the man. Given the young age of the minor , this requires guidance by the woman. If the wife is now unwilling to minors to this route guidancethere is no alternative. Then contact is currently not possible. For the minor 's identity development , it is ultimately important that he knows who his father is. The Council also considers it important that the woman continues to inform the man about the minor about four times a year .


5.5
The court considers as follows. Pursuant to Article 1: 377a paragraph 2 of the Civil Code (BW), at the request of a parent , whether or not for a definite period of time, establishes or denies a rule on the exercise of access rights , whether or not for a definite period of time, the right to association .

Under 1: 377a paragraph 3, DCC denies the judge the right to association only if:

a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of the child , or

b. the parent or the person in close personal relationship with the child must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or

c. the child who is twelve years of age or older , during his hearing of serious objections to dealing with his parent or the person with whom he has a close personal relationship, or

d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.6
It appears that the minor is a five-year-old boy who has already experienced a lot; his young age and the events of the past make him vulnerable. When the minor was born, the man was in detention. the minor then grew up without any significant interference from the man. When the minor was less than a year old, on 22 February 2015, the man was again placed in pre-trial detention. As far as is known at the court, the man is currently still in detention. the minor has witnessed domestic violence between his parentsand has stayed with the woman for a longer period in a Home. Furthermore, the minor is burdened by the poor relationship and the problems between his parents . the minor lives with the woman and recently went to school, which is a big change for him. He has no dealings with the man. According to the woman, the minor has no need for that either . In 2016, the wife and the minor visited the husband twice in detention. In the fall of 2017 there was another Facetime contact with the man. Afterwards, the interaction came to a halt.


5.7
On the part of the man only very brief information is known, which, moreover, is not recent. It is known to the court that the man has a burdened past, whereby he has repeatedly come into contact with the police and the judiciary. The man belonged to the so-called 'Top600' of the municipality of Amsterdam. This is a group of 600 people who have committed relatively many high-impact crimes in recent years. The man is diagnosed with an anti-social personality disorder with borderline traits and substance dependence (cocaine and alcohol) in remission. He uses cannabis under supervision . He also suffers from ADHD and PTSD. When the man was a minorwas convicted of a number of property and violence crimes and once for leaving the place after a collision. For this the man has repeatedly been given juvenile detention. The man was repeatedly convicted in the period up to 2015 for street robbery, assault , car burglaries and threats . Since 2015, he has been in detention under criminal law , in a clinic, a forensic treatment facility for psychiatric patients, after being convicted of attempted homicide and assault.on 24 November 2015. It follows from the council report of 31 January 2018 that the man has followed the various therapies satisfactorily and - according to a letter from the GZ psychologist from the clinic dated 8 January 2018 - had not used cocaine for six months and had no aggression incident had occurred in the last three months. There was sometimes verbal aggression , but it was not aimed at a person and is primarily an expression of tension , according to the GZ psychologist.


5.8
In April 2018, after the treatment at the clinic, the man would first start living in a protected living area on the same site. In the appeal of 14 August 2018, the man states that he would come out of detention around that time. Whether this has actually been the case is not known to the court, let alone that it is known how the return to society after years of detention for the man worked out.


5.9
With this state of affairs, the Court of Appeal cannot currently judge whether the man is actually in a stable situation, whereby dealing with the minor might be possible. For example, the court has no insight into its current living situation, current family situation or work. It can be deduced from the appeal that the man will prove in the coming period that he has actually built up a stable life after his release. However, every information about the result is missing. Considering the turbulent history of the man, his multiple psychiatricproblems and, at least until recently, dependence on resources, it was up to the man to inform the court about this. In addition, the court attaches importance to the statement of the GZ psychologist in the council report of 31 January 2018 that the verbal aggression of the man increases in the event of tension . In view of the above, stable situation, in which the man, even outside the detention setting, will not fall back on violent crimes and substance use, has not been found (s). In addition, as has been considered above, the minor is a vulnerable boy with a burdened past. All in all, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that establishing an access arrangementconflict with the minor's important interests . That is why the court of appeal rejects the man's request to establish contact with the minor . The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.


5.10
The above leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal.

This decision was made by AR Sturhoofd, AVT de Bie and MJ Leijdekker, in the presence of LS van Tol as clerk and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 12 November 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 4171