Content indication
Child support: care discount , (no) fictitious income with the care parent .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-28
Publication date
2019-12-02
Case number
200,260,544
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.260.544

(Case number Court of the Central Netherlands 466641)

decision of 26 November 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: formerly AS Bodha in Amsterdam,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: AM Beuwer in Utrecht.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the order of the Midden-Nederland District Court, location Utrecht, of 5 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number, also referred to as: the contested decision.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

the appeal with productions 1 to 6, received on 5 June 2019;
the defense with productions 1 and 2;
a journal report from mr. Bodha of 2 October 2019 (withdrawal), and
a journal report from mr. Beuwer of 10 October 2019 with productions 3 and 4.

2.2
The oral hearing took place on 24 October 2019. The man has appeared in person. The woman also appeared in person, assisted by her lawyer.


3 The facts
The husband and wife are the parents of: the minor (further: the minor ), born in 2014 in B. The man has recognized the minor .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision stipulated - enforceable in stock - that from 5 September 2018 the man must pay a contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the minor (hereinafter: child support ) of € 488 per month.


4.2
The man appealed against the contested decision with two complaints. These complaints relate to the level of the woman 's capacity to pay and whether or not to apply the care discount . The man requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision and again having the child support with effect from August 2018, or such a date as the Court considers reasonable, at an amount of € 191 per month, or such an amount as the Court to be reasonable.


4.3
The woman defends and requests the Court of Appeal - to the extent practicable in stock - to declare the husband inadmissible in his request or to reject his request on appeal to ratify the contested decision, with compensation for the costs in that decision. meaning that each party bears its own costs.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The child support should be fixed in accordance with legal standards need and capacity . The Court of Appeal - unless otherwise stated - is based on the guidelines for the calculation of child support from the Expert Group Alimony Standards .

Need


5.2
The requirement of the minor of € 545 per month in 2017, as determined by the contested decision , is not in dispute and is therefore established. The need is - after indexing - € 553 per month in 2018 and € 578 per month in 2019,

Care discount


5.3
In his second complaint, the man claims that the court wrongly did not take the care discount into account . He has not seen the minor for a year and a half now and is doing everything he can to get in touch with the minor . The woman constantly invents new apologies. In the meantime, the council has determined that an access arrangement must be started. That is why it is reasonable to take into account a care discount of 15%.


5.4
The woman defends. It denies the existence of a situation that they deal stops.

On July 17, 2018, the man submitted a request for establishment of an access arrangement to the court. In that procedure, a survey by the Council for Child Protection (hereinafter the Board ) conducts. The council issued a report on 22 May 2019 and advised the parents to follow the “parenting continues” process at C. With this in mind, the man's request was dealt with for nine months and therefore there was no interaction between the minor and the man.

Furthermore, there has been (or has been) a contact ban imposed on a man in a criminal case. The woman lives with the minor with her mother . The man tried to set fire to the woman 's mother 's house .


5.5
The court rules as follows.

The purpose of the care discount is to determine in a general manner what costs are involved in the implementation of a care and contact arrangement between a child and the non-caregiving parent . To the extent that the non-caregiving parent - here: the father - incurs costs that can be considered as accommodation costs for the child - here: the minor - and the caregiving parent - here: the mother - thereby saves costs, there is reason to reduce the child support to be paid by the man by the size appropriate to the scope of the care and contact arrangementhealthcare discount .

The Court of Appeal finds that from the commencement date of the child support , 5 September 2018, there is no contact between the man and the minor . During the oral hearing on appeal it appeared that the parties very recently started the parenting process at C and that this process will take some time. When and how the contact between the man and the minor can be re-established cannot therefore be assessed at this time, but for the time being there will be no clear-cut and regular contact. Therefore, the man has not incurred any handling costs to date , at least no costs that can be seen assubsistence costs of the minor and there is no related saving in the woman. In view of this, the man's second complaint fails.


5.6
Insofar as a structural care and contact arrangement is established in the future and the conditions outlined above under 5.5 are met, parties can consult with care providers and / or their lawyers to see what an appropriate amount or percentage is for the care discount and what consequences this has to do with the contribution that the man must make to the woman.

Capacity of the woman


5.7
In his first complaint, the man states that the woman also has the obligation to contribute as much as possible to the needs of the minor . The woman had a considerably higher income in 2016 and 2017 and can still acquire it. She works in the healthcare sector and has sufficient opportunities to work more hours and in this way realize a higher income and a higher capacity . However, the woman does not make sufficient effort and that is why child support for the man feels like a disguised form of partner maintenance . The man believes that the salary can be used that the woman acquired at that time: € 21,000 gross per year.


5.8
The woman points out that the man only takes this position for the first time in this appeal procedure. That is why the court should ignore that.

With regard to her attempts to earn income , she explained that on 3 May 2018 she completed a training course to become an independent entrepreneur . She planned to start her own daycare center , but it turned out to be impossible to find affordable accommodation in her region. At the start of 2019, she found work in health care again, initially for three mornings a week. Within the organization where she currently works, she tries to get a job with other activities that she can combine well with the upbringing and care of the minor and she has now succeeded. With effect from 1 September 2019, she started working on average 24 hours a week.

The husband has not contradicted the wife's claim that she is not entitled to a child-related budget (KGB) because she lives with her mother and is therefore tax partners. The woman is entitled to the income-related combination tax credit .

In the aforementioned journal report of 10 October 2019, the woman submitted documents proving that she had in fact been able to expand her work in the meantime.


5.9
The court rules as follows.

Both parents are subject to maintenance obligations towards the minor on the basis of the law , which entails that they must both endeavor to be able to contribute as much as possible to the costs of raising and caring for the minor . The fact that the man did not invoke this, or at least not in so many words, at first instance on his position stated under 5.7 does not mean that he should not supplement his position on appeal in this sense. The appeal is - partly - intended to correct errors and omissions made in the first instance.

However, taking into account a notional earning capacity on the part of the caring parent - in this case: the wife - must be handled with care. If, on the basis of a notional earning capacity, a higher financial capacity than actually exists would be established, with the result that the child support to be paid by the husband would be lower, while the wife would subsequently prove unable to realize that earning capacity , then it would not be fully meet the needs of the minor .

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the woman - certainly in the light of the foregoing - has sufficiently substantiated and explained that she has actually made efforts and made efforts to increase her income . The court will therefore determine the capacity of the woman based on her actual income .


5.10
The above implies that the capacity of the woman up to 1 September 2019 was not higher than the minimum capacity of € 25 per month, based on a net disposable income (further: NBI ) up to 1 September 2019 of less than € 1,350, - net per month in 2018 and of € 1,375 net per month in 2019. Therefore, the first complaint of the man with regard to the period up to 1 September 2019 fails.

New determination from September 2019


5.11
From 1 September 2019 the woman has an income that consists of:

- the gross salary of € 1,407 per month

the holiday allowance of € 1,351 and
the year-end bonus, according to the specifications about 90% of the holiday allowance and therefore reasonably estimated by the court at € 1,210 gross per year.
It follows from the attached calculation that from 1 September 2019 the woman has an NBI of € 1,504 net per month. This includes a carrying capacity of € 106 per month, determined according to the carrying capacity table .


5.12
The husband has argued and the wife has not disputed that the husband 's income has remained unchanged since the contested decision: he is still receiving sickness benefits.

The court of appeal calculated the man 's capacity to pay on the basis of rates 2019 and the income data used by the court in the contested decision. The attached capacity calculation shows that the man has an NBI of € 2,369 per month and a capacity of € 496 per month.


5.13
The joint capacity of the parties is € 602, and that is more than the - indexed - need of the minor of € 578. It follows from the attached calculation that the man must bear € 476 per month and the woman € 102 per month as their own share in the needs of the minor .


5.14
On the basis of the above considerations, the court will ratify the contested decision until 1 September 2019. From that date, the court will annul the contested decision and the contribution to be paid by the man to the woman towards the costs of care and upbringing of the minor with effective from 1 September 2019 at an amount of € 476 per month.


5.15
The Court of Appeal will compensate the costs of the proceedings on appeal, now that the parties have had a relationship with each other and the proceedings concern the contribution to the child born from that relationship .


5.16
The Court of Appeal, as has already been considered above, will attach the calculations and the capacity-bearing capacity to this decision, which form part of it.


6 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the order of the Midden-Nederland District Court, location Utrecht, from 5 March 2019, for the period up to 1 September 2019:

annuls the order of the Midden-Nederland District Court, location Utrecht, of 5 March 2019, for the period from 1 September 2019, and in so far as it again has:

stipulates that the husband will pay the wife an amount of € 476 per month from 1 September 2019 as a contribution to the costs of care and upbringing for the minor , to pay the future installments in advance in advance;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. JB de Groot, IGMT Weijers-van der Marck and CFLA van der Vegt-Boshouwers, assisted by the clerk, were signed by IGMT Weijers-van der Marck in the absence of the chairman and was pronounced in public on 26 November 2019 in Presence of the Registrar.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 10215