Content indication
supervision
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-01
Publication date
2019-10-08
Case number
200.258.262 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.258.262 / 01

Court case number: C / 13/659948 / JE RK 19-20

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 1 October 2019 concerning

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: MMPM Lousberg in Amsterdam,

and

Child Protection Board ,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

to be called: the council .

The following are considered as stakeholders:

- the certified Salvation Army Youth Protection and Probation Institution (hereinafter: the GI);

- the minor (hereinafter: the minor ).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ) of 22 January 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
On 19 April 2019, the mother appealed against part of the decision of 22 January 2019.


2.2
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a letter from the Council of 18 July 2019, received on 25 July 2019;

- an e-mail message from the mother of 8 May 2019;

- a journal report from the mother of 30 July 2019 with appendices, received on 31 July 2019.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 12 August 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- Ms M. Dik on behalf of the council ;

- two employees on behalf of the GI;

- the father (hereinafter: the father ), as an informant.

The mother 's lawyer submitted a pleading in court.


3 The facts
From the (now broken) relationship of the mother and the father , the minor was born in 2012. The mother only exercises authority over the minor .

The mother has an older daughter from a previous relationship, child A (hereafter: child A), born in 2005. By the - in so far as not contested - decision, child A was placed under supervision and an authorization for her placement in a provision for foster care provided from 22 January 2019.

The mother has two adult sons.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, insofar as it is currently relevant, the minor was placed under the supervision of the GI for a period of one year in accordance with the request of the Council , with effect from 22 January 2019.


4.2
The mother calls - after May 8 clarification by e-mail in 2019 - with annulment of the contested decision in so far, primarily the preliminary request of the counsel for the minor under supervision to determine adjust to designate alternative that minors under supervision is imposed for a period of six months, or at least for such a duration as the court will deem appropriate.


4.3
The Council requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Article 1: the right to a 255, first paragraph, Civil Code (BW) minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
The mother argues that the grounds of Article 1: 255 of the Dutch Civil Code are not met in the case of the minor . She points out that at the time of the council's investigation into the necessity of being placed under supervision, a process was running at Families First in which the mother cooperated. That process was started because child A had said that the mother had abused her , which the mother contradicts. child A was no longer living at home at the time, but the investigation was needed to gain insight into the home situation of the minor . The Families First process has now been completed and a clear proposal for assistance has been made. Now that the mother will also cooperate in this, the supervision order has no added value and the juvenile court judge erroneously considered that help in the voluntary framework did not get off the ground. The mother used help herself and brought in the compulsory education officer, the Advice Desk, the Samenwerkingsverband and the education inspectorate, leading to the placement of the minor at another school.

The mother further points out that Families First was unable to provide a definitive answer about the truthfulness of the statements of child A and the minor about abuse by the mother . There are concerns about child A, but the mother has her nor minor mistreated and where the minor anything said, that statement is refuted by the research of Families First.

The decision of the juvenile court to place the minor under supervision seems to have been mainly motivated by the fear that investigation and assistance would not get off the ground, but that cannot be a ground for imposing a protection measure , let alone for the duration of a year.

At the hearing on appeal, the mother stated that she cooperates in all the help given to her (including system therapy) and that she also develops initiatives herself. In addition to arranging an IQ test and another school for the minor , she has arranged for him to receive occupational therapy on the advice of his new school. The supervision is rather counterproductive, for example because the agenda of the GI must also be taken into account when making agreements. The mother also asked the GI for contact between the minor and childA careful to build up, but she has not heard anything about it. Nor has she heard anything from the GI about the interaction between the minor and the father . She pointed out to the GI a decision from 2014 in which interaction at the Omgangshuis was determined.


5.3
In its letter of 18 July 2019, as supplemented at the appeal hearing, the Council states that the supervision of the minor is still necessary. After completing the process at Families First, no assistance was started, although that was advised. Since the mother denies having abused the children and therefore has no request for help in that regard, MST-CAN could not be started. Also care of Altra has not got off the ground. Furthermore, there is still no insight into the parenting environment at the mother's home. The concerns for his physical safetyare therefore still large. Both child A and the minor have made statements about abuse . Families First was unable to confirm that this was not (or was not) the case. The council has also considered applying for an authorization to place the minor out of home , but first wanted to gain more insight into the home situation. That that view is still not there is worrying.


5.4
The GI has not (yet) designated a permanent family manager after the previous family manager has stopped. At the hearing on appeal it appeared that the GI intends to transfer the case to another certified institution . Furthermore, it was explained what efforts the GI made when MST-CAN could not be started. Both help from Altra and Nika as well as from Intensive Ambulatory Family Treatment did not get off the ground due to, among other things, contraindications and waiting lists. Then have GI approached the town, because one of the older (half) brothers of minor an employee of the Preventive Intervention Team has been assigned who could possibly also screen the minor . Although the mother had an intake interview with the GGD about the older (half) brother of the minor , she did not cooperate further. Also psychological research the likes mother not cooperate. Nor does it allow the GI to speak to the minor outside of her presence. The mother is willing to accept assistance for the minor , in addition to everything that she arranges, but noneassistance for themselves.

neither child A nor the other children of the mother want direct contact with her, but child A would like to contact the minor . She herself contacted the GI to make it possible for her to speak to the minor on her birthday , but the mother did not cooperate.

The GI supports contact between the minor and the father via the Omgangshuis , but the priority at the moment lies with his home situation and the view thereof.


5.5
At the hearing on appeal, the father stated that he had not seen the minor for years. Previously, his financial supervision by the Omgangshuis did not allow, but now he can afford it and he hopes to be able to go there to see the minor again.


5.6
The court considers as follows. The documents show that the minor shows serious behavioral problems, for which reason his (previous) school expressed her concerns to the Parent and Child Team in mid-2018 . Not only school has concerns about the (emotional and physical) safety of the minor (considering also his statements that he would be beaten by the mother ), but also the church and some family members have voiced those concerns.

The mother acknowledges that the minor shows behavioral problems. The council report of January 2, 2019 shows that the minor at his previous school could get very angry , restless and cheeky, and had difficulty concentrating. He regularly showed unwanted and disruptive behavior. He was often sent out of the classroom, among other things because he showed aggression towards fellow students and against teachers, and eventually he was suspended and changed school. The report of the progress interview of 23 May 2019 and the report of 12 July 2019 show that the school change went well and that the first weeks of the minor exceeded expectations. the minor shows mostly good behavior, but there are still incidents in which he blames on his anger .

It is unclear what causes the behavioral problems of the minor . With regard to the suggestion that the cause lies in the parenting situation, the mother pointed out that Families First had gained insight into her home situation. The crisis workers came a few times a week for 3.5 hours at her home, and their research has revealed that the mother of the minor has been abused . Indeed, the follow-up plan / final report from Families First of February 7, 2019 shows that the minor did not say to be beaten by the mother , but theAs a result of the four-week guidance on this, a crisis worker was unable to provide a definitive answer , so that it cannot be said that the mother had not abused the minor . Furthermore, the report shows that the crisis worker , the behavior of the minor has been detected and that it repeatedly against the mother said that there is still too little insight into the availability of the mother of the minor in emotional terms.

With the juvenile court, the Court of Appeal considers it necessary to investigate further where the cause of the minor 's behavioral problems lies . Although his school change seems to have (had) a positive effect on the behavior of the minor , his behavioral problems were so serious and are still present that it is not only necessary to work on their removal, but also to look for the cause of it. This is all the more true now that the minor (as well as his sister) has made worrying statements about the mother's aggression . On a psychological examination , the mother has not cooperated so far. It did, however, ensure that an IQ test was conducted for the minor and, in collaboration with, among others, the attendance officer and the Advisory Counter, arranged that the minor could go to another primary school, but these initiatives, as well as her participation in a part of the assistance provided to it does not make it possible to conclude that assistance in the voluntary framework is sufficient. In the opinion of the court, it is satisfactory from the proceedings at the hearing that the mothercooperates only to a certain extent and that, despite the efforts of Families First, insufficient insight has been gained into the home situation of the minor . In view of the aforementioned behavioral problems, as well as the signals that both he and child A give about the home situation at the mother , it is important that the minor is spoken without the mother being involved and that follow-up assistance is used, as advised by Families First. That that has not yet happened is not only due to the GI.

In view of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there is a serious development threat , mainly due to the behavioral problems of the minor , and that the care that is necessary in connection with the removal of that threat is insufficiently accepted by the mother , among other things because she has given too little insight into her home situation. The grounds of Article 1: 255 of the Dutch Civil Code are therefore met. It is expected that the GI will still need the remaining duration of the supervision period (until January 22, 2020) in order to gain insight and appropriate assistance.so that the court will reject the mother 's request to limit the duration of the measure.


5.7
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal is made;

rejects the more or otherwise requested;

requests the Registrar to send a copy of this decision to the Registrar of the Amsterdam Court, Civil Law Division, Family and Juvenile Law Team for the attention of the public register pursuant to the provisions of the Authority Registers Decree .

This decision was made by GW Brands-Bottema, AN van de Beek, and JA van Keulen, in the presence of FJE van Geijn, as clerk, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 1 October 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3540