Content indication
No joint parental authority . Request father is dismissed. Father does not connect with his daughter, parents' understanding is disrupted , parents disqualify each other and father does not unconditionally support the daughter's placement in the home . Daughter is vulnerable and will get stuck and lost if parents have joint custody .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-28
Publication date
2019-12-04
Case number
200.257.386 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.257.386 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/162188 / FA RK 18-911)

decision of 28 November 2019

in the case of

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: A. van der Pol in Leeuwarden, the Netherlands,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: AJ de Boer in Leeuwarden.

The following are designated as informers:

the certified Institution Center for Protection and Safety ,

established in Leeuwarden,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of January 9, 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s) of the mother , received on 2 April 2019;

- the defense with production (s);

- a journal report from 11 April 2019 from mr. Van der Pol with production (s);

- a letter from the Child Protection Board of 10 April 2019.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 4 October 2019. The father and mother appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. On behalf of the GI , Mr C, Mrs. D and an intern have appeared. There is no representative of the Council for Child Protection (hereinafter the Board ) appeared.


3 The facts
The minor was born in 2009 from the affective relationship of the parents . the minor is recognized by the father . The relationship between the parents was broken at the end of 2016. The mother exerts until now the authority on the minor alone out. the minor has a slight intellectual disability. They state since mid-2017 under the supervision of the GI and staying since September 2018 in a (network) foster family, the sister (and her husband) of the mother . The parents have bothdealing with the minor for two hours every four weeks.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, as far as relevant here, the father 's request to jointly charge him and the mother with the authority over the minor was rejected.


4.2
The father appealed against the contested decision with one complaint. He has also increased his request.

The father primarily requests him instead of burdening the mother with the (single-headed) authority over the minor , or at least alternatively burdening him jointly with the mother with the authority .


4.3
The mother puts forward a defense and requests that the appeal of the father be declared unfounded or rejected.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Under Article 1: 253c paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) the until it authority competent parent of the child who never has the authority jointly with the parent from whom the child is exercised born, the court ask the parents to the joint authority or only to burden him with the authority over the child . The second paragraph of this article stipulates that if the request is to entrust the parents with joint custody and the other parent with joint custodydoes not agree, the request is only rejected if: a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child might get stuck or lost between the parents and it is not expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, or b. rejection is otherwise necessary in the best interest of the child .

The third paragraph of this article provides that, if the other parent to the custody of the child exercises, the request of the parent to him only by the authority is only granted to tax if the court in the interest of the child considers it appropriate.


5.2
The father states, in summary, that he has good contact with the minor in the foster family and that, unlike the mother , he is a concerned father from the start of the placement . He believes that, more than the mother , he can put the minor's interests first and that he must - primarily - exercise sole authority over the minor . In gaining authority , he will be part of the life of the minor and be able to take a decision about her, more than is currently the case. Right now there is afoster family placement within the mother 's network , he is as a father without authority behind. In the alternative, the father considers a joint exercise of authority possible, certainly if the GI remains involved for some time in the context of supervision . In addition, he notes that the mother through the communication refusing him should not be rewarded with the rejection of his request for joint custody .


5.3
In summary, the mother argues that the parties are unable to make joint decisions. The parents disqualify each other and that is not good for the minor who is vulnerable because of her intellectual disability. It is not clear to the mother why the father believes that he can exercise the authority over the minor better than the mother , certainly now that he does not always keep the minor's interests in mind. The mother points out that she as a parenthas taken a step back in care and upbringing and, in the interest of the minor, agrees to placement . It acknowledges that it has struggled with that decision and has therefore kept its distance. In the meantime, contact with the minor (and the foster family ) has been restored and she has regular contact with the minor .


5.4
The GI stated at the hearing that, given the disturbed understanding between the parents , there is no basis for joint custody . the minor is expected to become even more trapped and lost by the joint authority between the parents , who are both important to her in her life. The GI also does not consider it to be in the best interests of the minor to entrust the father with sole authority instead of the mother .


5.5
The documents and the proceedings at the hearing showed that the relationship between the parents is still disturbed and that virtually every communication between the parents is lacking. The parents have not been able to consult and cooperate for a long time, even when it comes to matters that concern the minor . Parents disqualify each other, mainly point to the other and are unable to see their own share in the disturbed relationship. These were at the time partly the reasons for the minor 's placement . Within supervision , the GI has used a form of system therapy to help parents become more aware of this and gain more insight into their (im) possibilities to come to consultation and cooperation. This has had insufficient results. System therapy now focuses solely on obtaining the consent and approval of both parents for a long-term continuation of the placement of the minor in the current foster home . However, this too is difficult, in particular due to the father's wish that the minor should be discussed below come to live with him in the long term. In the opinion of the court of appeal, there is no concrete prospect of improving communication between parents .


5.6
It is also clear to the court that the father does not unconditionally agree with the placement of the minor in the foster family . The father acknowledges that the minor is in its place and is well developed in the foster home . Both parents therefore agree that the current placement is in the best interests of the minor . However, the father has mentioned the minor 's primary school age as a term for out-of- home placementand does not automatically agree with the continuation of the placement thereafter. He has expressly expressed the wish, also towards the mother and the minor , that the minor eventually come to live with him and his wife. Although this wish is perceptible in itself, it ignores the unrest and uncertainty that this entails for the minor (and the foster family ) with regard to her stay in the foster family . The father has insufficient attention to the clarity and certainty that the minor needs with regard to her stay with the foster family, and the support and approval she needs from both parents for this. With his wish that the minor come to live with him, he also misunderstands that his home or his family is a fraught place of residence for the minor because her half-brother, born from a previous relationship of the father , resides in the father's family and according to the minor sexually cross-border acts of that half-brother have taken place with the minor . The father is visibly struggling to face this, while there are concrete indicationsthat this was indeed the case. Not only the mother, but also the minor herself, has repeatedly mentioned this, also during the therapy that she has had because she has shown disrupted sexual behavior. The mother stated at the hearing that, although the aforementioned half-brother denies the sexual abuse , it has previously admitted this, in the presence of the then youth protector of the GI, while it is certain that the criminal prosecution has ended with a conditional dismissal with a probationary period of one year. The denial of the fatherof the events affects the basic safety of the minor .


5.7
Finally, the Court of Appeal took into account that the GI, on the basis of the assisted intercourse contacts , has established that during these intercourse contacts the father also has difficulty connecting with (the perception of) the minor and regularly submits cases to her. and discusses with her that are not appropriate. This also means that the minor does not always feel heard and seen by the father .


5.8
Taking everything into account, the court and the court are of the opinion that there is an unacceptable risk that the minor will become more trapped and lost between her parents when exercising joint custody . The risk is (too) great that joint custody will lead to more conflicts about the minor between the parents , even when the child protection measures will continue and the GI can continue to play a mediating role between the parents . Given the vulnerability of the minor and the existing oneloyalty conflict is joint custody does not arise.


5.9
Eight court against the facts and circumstances outlined above it neither in the interest of the minor desirable to the father rather than the mother with the monarchical authority over the minor burden.


5.10
The court of appeal will reject both the primary and the subsidiary request of the father with regard to the change of authority .


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the grievances fail. The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision, as far as subject to its judgment, and decide as follows.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the order of the Northern Netherlands court, Leeuwarden location of January 9, 2019, to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by EBEM Rikaart-Gerard, IM Dölle, and C. Koopman, assisted by J. Robben, as clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 28 November 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 10306