Content indication
Authority and interaction . Case is being taken to give the father a last chance to show that he is willing and able to be responsible parenting .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-07
Publication date
2019-05-15
Case number
200.245.328 / 01
Procedure
Interim decision
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.245.328 / 01

(Case number Court of Overijssel C / 08/213950 / FA RK 18-342)

decision of 7 May 2019

on

applicant ,

residing in A,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

HA van der Kleij, lawyer in Zwolle, the Netherlands

and

defendant ,

residing in A,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: IH Grandjean in Wijhe.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the certified institution

Youth Protection Foundation Overijssel ,

established in Zwolle,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Overijssel court, location Zwolle, of 31 May 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 30 August 2018;

- the (interim) order of this court of 20 September 2018;

- the statement of defense of the mother , received on 17 October 2018, with production (s);

- the statement of defense of the GI, received on 19 October 2018, with production (s);

- the report of the Council for Child Protection (called further: the council ) of

December 3, 2018;

- a journal report from mr. Van der Kleij of 28 January 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from Van der Kleij of 27 March 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. Grandjean of 28 March 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 8 April 2019. Parties have appeared, assisted by their lawyers. Mrs. B appeared on behalf of the council . Mrs C and Mrs D appeared on behalf of the GI . Mr. Van der Kleij also spoke on the basis of a pleading note submitted by him.


3 The facts

3.1
From the marriage of parties dissolved by divorce in the meantime :

- the minor1, born in 2013; and

- the minor2, born in 2015.

The children have their main residence with the mother .


3.2
By divorce decision of 24 March 2017, the court in Overijssel, location Zwolle, determined that the content of the proceedings on 21 December 2016 and

Signed parenthood plan on 3 February 2017 is part of the decision. In this parenting plan is (among other things) requires the parents the authority joint exercise and the children one weekend a fortnight from Saturday 9:00 pm to Sunday at 19:00 the father stays if the father has its own shelter. As long as there is no own accommodation, the visits will take place in the parentalhouse in A on Saturdays once every two weeks from 2:00 pm to 5:00 pm, in the presence of grandma (father's side). In addition, the parties have agreed an arrangement for special days, public holidays and vacations.


3.3
By order of 9 January 2017, the juvenile court judge placed the minor1 and the minor2 under the supervision of the GI, which measure was subsequently extended, for the last time until

January 9, 2020.


3.4
By petition, received on 8 February 2018, the mother asked the court to amend the decision of 24 March 2017 and to stipulate that custody of the children only belongs to the mother and that there is (for the time being) no contact between the father and the children takes place, unless behavioral experts advise otherwise at any time.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
There is a dispute between the parents about the custody of the children and the care / access arrangement between the father and the children . The contested decision of

May 31, 2018, enforceable from stock, the mother is solely charged with parental authority over the minor1 and the minor2 and the father has been denied the right to interact with the children .


4.2
The father asks the court decision to annul the contested and judgment again: primarily, the request of the mother off point, in the alternative, the joint custody let stand for and decide on the care arrangements to hold pending an opinion from the counsel and / or measures to be taken, such as an expert report with application of forensic mediation and / or access counseling , in the further alternative, to establish in good justice a scheme whereby the father will have contact with his two children , in principle in the manner such as father and motherhave agreed and described in the parenting plan and declare this decision enforceable.


4.3
The mother puts forward a defense and asks the Court of Appeal to declare the father inadmissible in his appeal, at least to reject his requests by ordering the father to pay the costs of the proceedings, or to pay costs in law, or at least to take such a decision as the court considers good justice to be correct.


4.4
The GI defends and requests the Court of Appeal to dismiss the appeal of the father and to ratify the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
At the discretion of the court of appeal lies for the termination of the joint authority and the amendment of the care / access arrangement. The court has by order of

September 20, 2018 the Board requested an investigation to be set to the authority and the association and the court on reporting and advice.


5.2
The report of 3 December 2018 prepared by the council shows - in summary - that the council sees no opportunities for joint custody of the parents , because they are unable to consult each other and there is no form of jointness. In addition, the Council is of the opinion that a care / access arrangement between the father and the children does not meet the interests of the children . The father must first take a reliable position in fulfilling agreements and regulate and control his emotions in an appropriate manner, and the mothermust first go through her treatment herself, after which the minor1 can start trauma therapy. The treatment process of the minor1 is a decisive factor in building contact between the father and the children , according to the council . The council therefore agrees with the court's decision.


5.3
The Court of Appeal finds that there is a bad relationship between the parents . There has been domestic violence in the relationship . Although the father disputes the physical abuse against the mother , it is certain that incidents have occurred between parties in the past and that this led to a temporary ban on the father in 2014 and 2016 . The parents are unable to consult each other about the upbringing of the children . The mother indicates that her fear of the father , his unpredictable behavior and lack of insight into his own actionscommunication and cooperation. The various assistance programs that have been deployed (including E and F) have not (sufficiently) got off the ground. The children are since early 2017 under the supervision of the GI (also) because they are charged with the tensions between the parents and thereby seriously in their development are threatened . The interaction between the father and the children stopped mid-2017 due to disagreements between the parents and the changing signalsthat the father has issued about wanting to have contact with the children , which caused them unrest and confusion. In 2017, the father went through a downward period, became depressed and, as a result, ended up in the sickness law. Substitute permission from the judge was then necessary for medical treatment of the minor1. The divorce and the problems between and of the parents have a serious impact on the children .

Particularly minderjarige1, which considering his age has inherited most of the unsettled and dangerous situation at home, let the mother see at home and at school conspicuous behavior. He is restless, makes a lot of noise, has eating problems and problems with regulating his emotions . He was diagnosed by G (in 2018) with a post- traumatic stress disorder as a result of domestic violence and an unspecified depressive mood. Treatment has proved to be necessary for him and he has recently started trauma therapy. Due to circumstances, the children are doing well at the moment , also at school. The fatherworked with professional help from H on his problems in the first half of 2018 and completed his treatment (positively). The mother receives personal guidance from I and (parenting) support from J. Both processes will soon end because the mother has developed positively in the past period and there is no longer any need for help.


5.4
The GI indicates that it is important that the minor1 can undergo the treatment process in peace and that handling is only possible if the father is stable in his emotion regulation and statements to the mother and the youth protector can engage in constructive conversation (during MDO ), fulfills its agreements and can show a degree of self-reflection over a longer period. According to the GI, this is not (yet) the case. In addition, the GI considers it essential, certainly in view of the treatment of the minor1, that the father acts towards the childrenrecognizes what has happened, that he shows a stable picture in his involvement with them and that the children can experience peace, safety and predictability in contact with the father . Because of the unchangeability of his actions and because the father puts the cause of many things outside himself, the GI considers it necessary for the father to be examined psychologically and (if necessary) treated for this, to see if there is any inability in the father and to see what is within his capabilities.


5.5
The court recognizes the concerns about the development and safety of the children in combination with the complex divorce issues between the parents . However, in view of the very young age of the children , the divorce pronounced relatively recently and the recently started assistance for the minor1, the court wants to give the father a last chance to show that he is able and willing to fully to improve the mutual relationship with the mother in order to give substance to itparenthood . The court takes into account the radical nature of the cessation of authority and the fundamental right of a child (with a view to his (identity) development) to have contact with both parents . In its assessment, the Court of Appeal considered the possibility that the behavior of the father , including his statements about wanting to forego authority and contact, not cooperating and not complying with agreements, were related to his depressive mood disorder for which, according to the documents, he now has been treated. The court also takes into account the interaction between the father and thechildren have been (generally) positive and that the GI is involved with and supervising the family (in the context of the ongoing supervision ) .


5.6
The court, however, with the Board believes that dealing in the interest of the deployed therapy minderjarige1 his trauma, he somehow connect with the father , is not desirable and feasible during this stretch. The file, including the council report, shows that there are indications of underlying problems with the father for which a further personality examination and, if necessary, an appropriate assistance offer is indicated.

The court advises the father to start this investigation so that there is soon a better understanding of what role he can play in the lives of the minor1 and the minor2, what both parents need in order to achieve a minimal form of communication in order to allow untaxed contact between to make it possible for the father and the children and how this can best be integrated into the life and possibilities of the children . The court also recommends that the father demonstrate that he is able to communicate in a normal way (with the mother and the GI) for a longer period of timeand to put the interests and perception of the children above his own needs . It goes without saying that the father omits incriminating e-mail messages. The mother has taken steps to accommodate her own fears and feelings of insecurity and the court understands that this positive development must be continued, but emphasizes that for a possible recovery of contact between the father and the children it is also very important that the mother willing and able to give the children the space and the necessary guidanceto give. In view of the fact that the children have not been in contact with the father for almost two years now, the court deems it important, depending on the course of therapy of the minor1, that in the context of establishing / restoring an attachment relationship, the upcoming time must be investigated by the GI to what extent a minimum form of positive contact (a card / phone call) between the father and the children is possible and / or how they can be worked towards. It goes without saying that the interests of the children are a first consideration in this.


5.7
All things considered, the Court of Appeal now considers it too early to make a final decision about the custody and the care / access arrangement between the father and the children . The Court of Appeal will therefore postpone the handling of the case for a period of seven months pending a further report to be submitted by the GI on recent developments with regard to the progress of trauma therapy for the minor1 and the aforementioned points for attention for the father . The court requests the GI this report at the latest

Send it to the court on December 20, 2019 and a copy to the father , mother and council , after which everyone has the opportunity to respond to the court in writing within fourteen days. In anticipation of this, the court will refer the case for further consideration to a hearing to be determined. The parents , the GI and the council will be called in writing in due course. If so desired, if the interests of the children so require, the court may be motivated to shorten the arrest period.


5.8
In view of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal sees reason to suspend the enforceability in stock that was pronounced in the contested decision with regard to the decision on the authority (ex officio), provisionally for the duration of the arrest and until this court will further be decided, so that the decision can also be taken into account how the father behaves in the upcoming time in the (authority) decisions to be taken with regard to the children , as well as in the cooperation with the mother and the GI. The Court of Appeal has involved in this consideration that the GI, should this be unexpectedly necessary, to protect the interests of the children(by means of a written instruction ) can intervene.


6 The conclusion
The foregoing leads to the next (interim) decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

before deciding further:

Suspends the effect of the enforceable decision of inventory of the decision of the Overijssel court, location Zwolle, of 31 May 2018, insofar as it relates to the decision with regard to parental authority ;

asks the GI later than December 20, 2019 the court of lakes info about the state of affairs (as described above under 5.6 and 5.7) by means of a report;

requests the GI to send a copy of that report to the parents and the council , after which they are given the opportunity to respond in writing within a period of fourteen days;

determines that the handling of the case will be continued on a date to be determined after receipt of the GI report , for which parties, the GI and the council will be summoned, unless the court decides otherwise;

keeps every further decision.

This decision was made by mrs. IA Vermeulen, MP den Hollander, and

M. Weissink, assisted by Mr. E. Klijn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 7 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4082