Content indication
Request father to establish visitation is denied. This is partly due to unrestrained behavior of the father and trauma processing by the mother .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-07-09
Publication date
2019-07-24
Case number
200.251.139 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.251.139 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 18/168402 / FA RK 16-1749)

decision of 9 July 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: FB Flooren in Groningen, the Netherlands,

and

defendant,

residing in A,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: HGE Klatter in Veendam.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the orders of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of 22 November 2016, 13 June 2017, 3 April 2018 and 16 October 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 10 December 2018;

- the defense;

- a journal report from mr. Flooren of 13 December 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr. Flooren of January 16, 2019 with production (s);

- a fax message from Mr. Flooren of January 21, 2019;

- a journal report from mr. Klatter of 27 May 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr. Flooren of 17 June 2019 with production (s).


2.2
On 20 June 2019, the minor, to be specified below, appeared, who was heard by the court in the absence of parties.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 20 June 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. On behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board ), Mrs. B appeared in the context of his advisory role. At the hearing, Mr Klatter also spoke on the basis of the pleadings she submitted.


3 The facts

3.1
The father and the mother (hereafter also: the parents ) are the parents of:

- the minor1, born in 2006 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor1); and

- the minor2, born in 2011 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor2).

The father has recognized the minor1 and the minor2 (hereafter also: the children ).

The mother is in charge of custody of the minor1 and the minor2. The mother and the children live together as a family.


3.2
The father lives as a family with his partner C and their son: the minor3, born in 2014 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor3).


3.3
Since the beginning of 2016, contact between the father and the children has been broken. The father has, where relevant, requested the court to establish an access arrangement whereby he interacts with the children one weekend every fortnight from Friday 6:00 pm to Sunday 6:00 pm , and once every fortnight on Wednesday afternoon after school until 6:00 pm hour and half of the holidays and public holidays.


3.4
By decision of 22 November 2016, the court requested the Council to initiate an investigation into (among other things) the access arrangements and to report and advise on this.


3.5
By decision of 13 June 2017, the court (in accordance with the advice of the Council by report of 21 February 2017) reserved the decision regarding the access arrangements and asked the parties to comment on the results of the (deployed / already deployed) ) assistance and the steps that have been taken.


3.6
By decision of 3 April 2018, the court (again) reserved the decision regarding the access arrangements and asked the council (again) to conduct a brief additional investigation into the current possibilities of the minor1 and the minor2 for dealing with the father .


3.7
By additional council report of 28 June 2018, the council advised the court not to establish access arrangements between the father and the children .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
There is a dispute between (the interpretation of) the right of association between the father and his children of the minor1 and the minor2 between the parties . By the contested decision of 16 October 2018, the court rejected, insofar as relevant here, the father 's request for a visitation arrangement between him and the children .


4.2
The father appealed against the contested decision of 16 October 2018 with two complaints. The complaints relate to the grounds on which the father 's request for contact with his children was rejected. The father requests (as further explained at the hearing) the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision insofar as this is concerned and to re-establish the right of access to both the minor1 and the minor2, whereby the interaction is structured in the sense that the interaction is first supervisedwill take place and that, with regard to the minor2, work will be done towards a standard access arrangement and whereby - if this interaction goes well - the minor1 may possibly also be included. The father has no preference for the time and location at which the interaction should take place.


4.3
The mother puts forward a defense and asks the Court of Appeal to declare the father inadmissible in the appeal lodged by him, or at least to reject his appeal, costs in law.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The judge at the request of the parents or one of them, whether or not for a fixed period, a system of exercising the rights of fixed or deny whether or not for some time, the right to association . Pursuant to Section 1: 377a (3) of the Civil Code (BW), the court denies the right to association only if: a. Association would seriously harm the mental or physical development of

the child , or b. the parent must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or c. the child who is twelve years or older , when he interrogates serious objections to interaction

has shown with his parent , or d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.2
A child has the right to associate with his parents and with the person who has a close personal relationship with him. With regard to the parent who is not charged with custody and the person who has a close personal relationship with the child , this right is guaranteed by Article 8 of the ECHR and Article 1: 377a (1) of the Dutch Civil Code and, with regard to the child , not only by that child. the latter provision, but also by Article 9, paragraph 3, CRC and Article 24, paragraph 3, Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. The judge can give the parent not charged with custody the right to have contact with the child only deny them on the grounds listed in Article 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code.


5.3
Any rejection of a request to establish an access arrangement and any decision in which the association is denied is temporary, in the sense that the parent is rejected whose application in the event of changes in circumstances and in any case after one year again can go to court to have an access arrangement established.


5.4
In the first instance, attempts were made to establish an access arrangement for approximately two years . The court issued three decisions between, the board has twice research conducted and there is both minderjarige1 as the mother assistance deployed by D. These efforts have not led to a positive result. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that sufficient efforts have been made in recent years to investigate and establish the possibilities of interaction between the father and his children the minor1 and the minor2 .


5.5
In the latest (additional) report of the council of 28 June 2018, the council concludes and advises, among other things, the following.

With regard to the minor1, the Council concludes that, at the time of the examination by the minor1, there is still no room for entering into contact with the father . the minor1 himself has indicated to the council investigator that he does not want to contact the father in any way: he wants the father to leave him alone and to respect his opinion. D has established during the investigation that there is no question of an unrealistic fear of the minor1 for the father or a (strong) influence of the mother on the image (of the father ) of the minor1.

Furthermore, the council is of the opinion that enforcing contact will have an adverse effect on the minor1: this will lead to irritation and a hardening of the position of the minor1 in the minor1, which will not benefit his relationship with the father . In addition, according to the Council, forcing contact could have a possible negative effect on the child's sense of well-being1.

Furthermore, the council doubts whether the minor1 would adhere to any imposed access arrangements and whether in that case the mother would be sufficiently capable of supporting the minor1 in making contacts.

With regard to the father, the council doubts whether he is sufficiently capable of getting into (the feelings of) the minor1 and of joining him. The father does not show that he understands the impact of past events on the minor in particular1. He also ignores the fact that the minor1 has repeatedly indicated that he does not want contact with the father . The father has during the investigation of the board very emotional shown towards his own desire for contact with the children recover.

The Council therefore sees no other option than advising at this time not to establish access arrangements between the minor1 and the father , because the minor1 has repeatedly expressed serious objections and because interaction is also otherwise contrary to the weighty interests of the minor1 is.

With regard to the minor2, the Council concludes - in summary - the following. With the minor2 there may be room to make contact with the father , because she is still a young girl who has experienced much less with the father than the minor1 and has learned less from the events between the parents . However, she grows up in a family situation in which the father is hardly talked about and in which the father has no positive role as far as he is concerned. The council has considered organizing (a) test contact (s) between the minor2 and the fatherto offer the minor2 an opportunity to form a picture of the father himself . However, the council has serious doubts as to whether the father is currently able to put the interests of the children first and to control his emotions in the event of a reunion. The Council is of the opinion that the father can not currently have contact with the minor2 without burdening her. Based on the contact with the father , the Council estimates that the (strong) emotions of the father in the contact with the minor2 will prevail.The board also has E guided interaction contemplated, but it delivers the same problem and therefore adverse effects minderjarige2. In addition , as with regard to the minor1, the council doubts whether the mother is sufficiently capable of supporting the minor2 in making contacts. The mother distrusts the father and wants rest. Moreover, the minor2 is a young girl who benefits from peace and stability, in order to adequately meet her developmental tasks . The Counciltherefore concludes that even a one-off contact is not in the interests of the minor2 and recommends that no access arrangements be established.


5.6
The court sees, just like the court, given the content of the file, including the council reports , and the proceedings at the hearing, no reason to deviate from the advice of the council . The court takes the following into account.

For the court, the opinion of the minor1, who is now twelve years old, weighs heavily. He has experienced traumatic events during the relationship of the parents . He has not been in contact with the father for more than three years . the minor1 has clearly and consistently indicated several times in the past few years and with different persons / authorities that he does not want to have contact with the father . Following the advice of the council in his report of 21 February 2017, he was registered with D for the purpose of investigating whether the minor's fear and negative feelings1 regarding his father, can at least be neutralized. the minor1, although he was not initially motivated for this process, did participate in this assistance process . However, the opinion of the minor1 on his father has not changed. Even during the interview at the court, he persisted in his opinion that he really did not want to have contact with the father . The Court therefore shares the Council's view that forced interaction for the minor1 will have the opposite effect.


5.7
With regard to the father 's assertion that the opinion of the minor1 is influenced by the mother 's mistrust of the father and that the establishment of a visitation arrangement is therefore impeded by the mother , the court considers as follows. The Court of Appeal first stated that D had investigated the possible influence of the minor1 on the mother . D has concluded that there is no (strong) influence of the mother on the image that the minor1 has of his father . In addition, themother is currently following an intensive care process at D for trauma processing for events that took place during the relationship with the father . At the time, the mother had reported the threat and abuse

and destruction by the father . Following this report, the father was convicted and stayed in detention for four months. After this treatment program of the mother is finished, D is the mother go see which handles the parent may obtain in due course to support the children to give the allowed children to contact the father desires. In the opinion of the court is on the mother at this time no question of unwillingness but inability and they must first get the space and tranquility for the assistance program to conclude positively.


5.8
Furthermore, the council has also found concerns in the person of the father that act as an impediment to dealing with the children . The court also found at the hearing that the father can react emotionally , and therefore shares the council's concerns about whether the father can adopt a neutral attitude during intercourse and therefore the children can have no-contact contact with the father . Perhaps the father , as he himself stated at the hearing, shows his emotionsmore towards adults and not or less towards the children , but the fact remains that within the system of the mother , the father , the minor1 and the minor2 concerns remain about the behavior of the father . To the extent that the father has stated that his emotional reaction is the result of a brain haemorrhage that he had at the end of 2017, the court notes that the father had already shown unrestrained behavior in the period before that, also in the presence of the children .


5.9
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, another contra-indication for contact is that the documents and the proceedings at the hearing have shown that the father is very reproachful towards the mother . The father shows no insight into his own share in the situation that has arisen. He only acknowledges his own share with regard to the reason for his detention, but has shown no further insight. The court gives the father therefore considered to aid this search to do so in the future association may be related to the children .


5.10
The father also took the position that the council and the court wrongly did not make a distinction between the minor1 and the minor2 and that, in any case, access to the minor2 could be established. At the hearing, the council explained in more detail why the council also advised in its report not to lay down access arrangements for the minor2. When answering the question or dealing with the fatheris in the best interests of the minor2, consideration must be given to what it will be like for the minor2 if she, but her brother the minor1, will not have contact with the father . the minor2 lives in a family relationship with the mother and the minor1, both of whom have no contact with the father . Both the mother and the minor1 are currently insufficiently capable of encouraging and supporting the minor2 in dealing with the father , so that the minor2 is not tax-free dealing with the fatherwill have. If the minor2 is forced to be the only one to have contact with the father , she will be given an exceptional position within the family where she is staying day and night.

The Court of Appeal shares the Council's view that it is not in the interests of the minor2 to give her a different position within her current family context, as a result of which she may feel stuck and isolated. The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that the court has rightly not established an access arrangement either with regard to the minor2 .


5.11
To the extent that the father has argued that his other son, the minor 3, is now four years old and has never seen the minor 1 and the minor 2 (his half-brother and half-sister), and furthermore there are no worries about and no assistance for the minor3, the court of appeal ignores this statement, since it concerns the minor1 and the minor2 and the court does not consider dealing with the father in the best interests of the minor1 and the minor2.


5.12
On the basis of the above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that under the current circumstances there are grounds for denial under a, c and d of Article 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Court of Appeal will therefore (supplementing the grounds) ratify the contested decision in so far as it rejects the father 's request for the adoption of an access arrangement .


6 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision, to the extent that it is subject to its judgment.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of October 16, 2018, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court.

This decision was made by mrs. MP den Hollander, AW Beversluis and F. Kleefmann, assisted by HB Fortuyn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on July 9, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 5794