Content indication
conviction for the deliberate removal of two minors from the lawful authority over them .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-07-02
Publication date
2019-07-02
Case number
21-000196-18
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
Department of criminal law

Parquet number: 21-000196-18

Judgment dated 2 July 2019

Contradiction

Shortened judgment of the Multiple Chamber for Criminal Matters of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal, Arnhem seat

noted the appeal against the judgment of the Gelderland District Court of 10 January 2018 with public prosecutor 's office number 05-740462-17 and the decision on the enforcement claim, prosecutor' s office number 01-215631-16, in the criminal case against

suspect ,
born at birth suspect on birth date suspect,

residing at suspect's address.

The appeal
The suspect appealed against the aforementioned judgment.

Investigation of the case
This judgment was delivered in connection with the investigation at the court hearings of the court of 18 September 2018, 18 June 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the investigation at the court of first instance.

The Court of Appeal has taken cognizance of the Advocate General's claim that the accused should be sentenced to a 365-day prison sentence of which 250 days are conditional with a probationary period of two years and a community service order of 100 hours, or alternatively 50 days in custody. The attorney general will attach the special conditions as imposed by the court to this probationary period, with the exception of electronic supervision . He also claimed that the defendant should be granted the freedom-restricting measure of a contact banis imposed for a period of five years on pain of 14 days in custody per violation with a maximum of 6 months, and that this measure is immediately enforceable. In addition, the Advocate General has requested that the claim for the execution of a 1-month prison sentence be granted and converted to a 60-hour community service sentence, alternatively 30 days in custody. This claim was submitted to the court after reading. The Court of Appeal also took cognizance of what was put forward by the accused and his counsel, HH van Steijn.

The judgment whose appeal
The suspect was sentenced by judgment of the Gelderland District Court of January 10, 2018 for the deliberate removal of his underage sons from the lawful authority over them .

The court of appeal will set aside the judgment of which an appeal is made because it comes to a different punishment and will therefore do justice again.

The indictment
The defendant has been charged with:

1. he in or around the period from 9 September 2017 to 13 September 2017 in Arnhem and / or in s-Hertogenbosch and / or in Milan and / or in the Netherlands and / or in Italy, deliberately a minor , victim 1, born on 1 birthdate victim has withdrawn and / or taken into account the legitimate asked him authority (the complainant) and / or the terms of those who desbevoegd exercised over him, after the suspect without permission:

- the aforementioned minor was taken to Italy and / or

- the aforementioned minor being detained in Italy

and thus the aforementioned minor was taken and / or kept out of the scope and / or sphere of influence of the applicant;

2. he in or around the period from 9 September 2017 to 13 September 2017 in Arnhem and / or in s-Hertogenbosch and / or in Milan and / or in the Netherlands and / or in Italy, deliberately a minor , victim 2, born birth victim 2, has extracted and / or taken into account the legal him held authority (the complainant) and / or the terms of those who desbevoegd about exercised him, while minor was aged under twelve years, after all, has suspect without permission:

- the aforementioned minor was taken to Italy and / or

- the aforementioned minor being detained in Italy

and thus the aforementioned minor was removed and / or kept out of the scope and / or sphere of influence of the applicant.

If language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, these have been corrected. The suspect was therefore not harmed in the defense.

Evidence considerations
At the hearing of the court on 18 June 2019, the defendant stated that on 26 July 2017 he was officially divorced from his former wife's principal (the principal) under Dutch law . According to the access arrangement , the eldest son lived victim 1 with suspect and the youngest son victim 2 with declarant. The suspect and the complainant jointly had parental authority over their sons.

On 9 September 2017, the defendant took both sons from the Netherlands to Italy. From the report and from the statements of the suspect it appears that the complainant did not give permission to the suspect to go to Italy with their sons. The defendant also stated at the hearing at first instance that the complainant did not know that he was taking their sons to Italy. He did not inform her about this and did not ask her for permission. In addition, the defendant stated that he did not ask the complainant for the passport of victim 2, because he assumed that the complainant would not give it.

By counsel has argued that acquitted the accused should be in fact one now their son one victim permanently with him and he lived by the complainant consent had one victim to take abroad. This statement is explicitly contradicted by the complainant and is not substantiated by the lawyer and the permission given has not become plausible on the basis of the content of the criminal file either. The agreement that the suspect would surrender his passport and that of victim 1 to the complainant when the suspect interacted with victim 2, as the suspect stated at the hearing on appeal, does not indicate such permission either.

Proof of declaration
By legal means of proof, whereby the content of each means of evidence - also in parts - is only used as proof of that charged offense to which it apparently relates, and which contains the reasoning facts and circumstances on which the statement of evidence is based, it considers court proved legally and convincingly that the accused committed the charges under 1 and 2, on the understanding that:

1. he in or around the period from 9 September 2017 to 13 September 2017 in Arnhem and / or in s-Hertogenbosch and / or in Milan and / or in the Netherlands and / or in Italy, deliberately a minor , victim 1, born on 1 birthdate victim has withdrawn and / or taken into account the legitimate asked him authority (the complainant) and / or the terms of those who desbevoegd exercised over him , after the suspect without permission:

- the aforementioned minor was taken to Italy and / or

- the above-mentioned minor in Italy retained / accommodated

and thus the aforementioned minor was taken and / or kept out of the scope and / or sphere of influence of the applicant ;

2. he in or around the period from 9 September 2017 to 13 September 2017 in Arnhem and / or in s-Hertogenbosch and / or in Milan and / or in the Netherlands and / or in Italy, deliberately a minor , victim 2, born birth victim 2, has extracted and / or taken into account the legal him held authority (the complainant) and / or the terms of those who desbevoegd about exercised him , while the minor was aged under twelve years, after all, has suspect without permission:

- the aforementioned minor was taken to Italy and / or

- the above-mentioned minor in Italy retained / accommodated

and thus the aforementioned minor was removed and / or kept out of the scope and / or sphere of influence of the applicant .

The Court of Appeal does not consider that what the accused was charged more or differently than was stated above, so that this should be acquitted.

Punishability of the proven
The certified under 1 provides:

deliberately withdraw a minor from the lawful authority over him .

The certified proven under 2 yields:

intentionally a minor evade lawful asked about his authority , while the minor is aged under twelve years.

Punishability of the suspect
Suspect is punishable since no circumstance has been found or has become plausible that would not make suspect punishable.

Imposition of punishment and / or measure
The punishment to be reported below is in accordance with the nature and the seriousness of the proven evidence and the circumstances in which this was committed, also in view of the person of the accused, as was shown during the investigation at the hearing.

With regard to the sentence, the court considered the following:

“On 9 September 2017, the Defendant took his two minor children to Italy without the mother's permission . The suspect has been away with the children for more than five days (...). It is unknown how long this situation would have persisted if the police in Milan had not arrested the suspect (...). The defendant thus removed both children from the authority of the mother . Moreover, the suspect knew that the oldest son would have to go to school from Monday 11 September 2017, which he deliberately ignored.

Parental authority is the right and duty of the parent to raise and care for his or her child . The interests of the child are central to this and that should be respected by everyone. Because of his actions, the defendant has not only crossed the parental authority of the complainant in a legal sense, but also in a factual sense . He has thereby placed his own interest above the interests of the children (and that of the complainant).

During the days that the suspect was with the children in Italy, the fate of the children was unknown to the complainant. No matter how relatively short this period may have been, it must have been an extremely uncertain, anxious and emotional time for her . This is all the more true now that there was a real fear that the suspect would actually take the children to Afghanistan. (...) Moreover, he gave the impression of the mother of the complainant by telephone that he was on his way to Afghanistan with the children . (...)

The court considers it very tangible that this caused a great fear with the complainant, as the mother of both children . The fact that the complainant was told after a few days that the children were in Milan was not due to the accused but to the judiciary and police in the Netherlands and Italy.

Suspect was on February 25, 2017 - also due to removal from parental authority (...) - criminally convicted and therefore is unacceptable knew without a doubt that such behavior. Moreover, in the context of those criminal proceedings it must have become clear to him that the Netherlands legislature has imposed a maximum term of imprisonment of 9 years on such offenses in the case of both children up to 12 years old. Nevertheless, within 7 months after the previous conviction, the defendant took both of their children abroad without the consent of the complainant.

The court therefore very much blames the defendant for his actions and does not accept the defendant's statement that it would be a spontaneous holiday and that the reference to Afghanistan was meant as 'a joke'.

The Court of Appeal agrees with these considerations, makes them its own and adds the following.

In the sentencing, the court took into account the suspect concerning Extract of Judicial Documentation of May 21, 2019. This shows that the suspect committed the proven facts during the probationary period of a previous conviction for taking one of his sons from the parental authority of declarant. In principle, the above circumstances therefore justify a substantial unconditional prison sentence.

However, the court also takes into account what the experts from the probation service and from the forensic psychiatric outpatient clinic Kairos about the defendant at the court hearing on 18 June 2019 and in the letter from Kairos of 8 April 2019 (as an annex to the request for modification of the suspension conditions ). The suspect adheres well to the agreements made, he is motivated for the treatment, is eager to learn and applies what he has learned. In addition, the defendant is busy with his own company and his eldest son lives with him again.

All in all, the Court of Appeal, along with the Advocate General, is of the opinion that an unconditional prison sentence, longer than the time the suspect has already spent in custody, no longer serves a reasonable purpose. The court will impose a partially suspended sentence on the suspect with a probationary period of three years and a community service order. In view of the fact that it appeared at the court hearing that the mutual relationships of the suspect, the complainant and their children are not yet stable and the suspect there is emotionallycan respond, the court will attach a longer probationary period than demanded by the Advocate General to the conditional part of the imprisonment imposed. To this probationary period, the Court of Appeal attaches the special conditions for probation supervision , reporting obligation and a contact ban with the complainant.

The Court agrees with the Advocate General that, in view of the current situation, a contact prohibition as referred to in Article 38v of the Criminal Code with the complainant is also necessary in this case. The Court of Appeal will order the immediate enforceability of this measure to prevent the accused from once again committing a criminal offense or acting incriminatingly towards the complainant. The Court of Appeal imposes this freedom-restricting measure for a period of five years in view of the still unstable situation regarding the authority and dealings with the children of the accused and the accuser.

In view of the above, the suspended warrant for pre-trial detention will be lifted.

Claim implementation
The prosecution has demanded the execution of the suspended prison sentence imposed by the police judge in the court in s-Hertogenbosch of 23 February 2017, public prosecutor 's office number 01-215631-16. This claim is again on appeal.

The investigation at the hearing revealed that the offender committed an offense before the end of the probationary period. Therefore, the enforcement of that conditional sentence can be ordered.

On the basis of what has been shown about the convicted person at the trial, the court will order a community service order of a specified duration instead of a charge to enforce this custodial sentence.

Request change of suspension conditions
A legal request was made by the counsel for a change to the suspension conditions . This request does not require further discussion now that it has lost interest in this, in view of the decision on the pre-trial detention order.

Applicable legal requirements
The Court of Appeal has considered Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 14d, 14g, 14h, 14i, 14j, 22c, 22d, 38v, 38w, 57 and 279 of the Criminal Code .

These regulations have been applied as they were valid at the time of the proven.

DECISION
The court:

Destroys the judgment that appeals and does justice again:

Declares, as considered above, proven that the suspect committed the charges under 1 and 2.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares the proven punishable under 1 and 2, qualifies as aforementioned and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for the duration of 365 (three hundred and sixty-five) days .

Determines that a part of the prison sentence, large 250 (two hundred and fifty) days , will not be enforced, unless the judge later ordered otherwise because the suspect committed a criminal offense before the end of a probationary period of 3 (three) years made guilty if during the probation period of 3 (three) years for the purpose of establishing his / her identity, the suspect did not cooperate in taking one or more fingerprints or no proof of identity as referred to in Article 1 of the Compulsory Identification Act has offered for inspection or has not cooperated with the probation supervision, as referred to in Article 14d, second paragraph, of the Code ofCriminal law , including cooperation with home visits, or has not complied with the special condition (s) below.

Sets as a special condition that the convicted person must report to Probation Netherlands at the address Nieuwe Oeverstraat 65 in Arnhem within 5 days after the decision and will continue to report to this institution during the probationary period, as frequently and for as long as probation requires eight.

As a special condition, the convicted person must adhere to the instructions given to him by or on behalf of the probation officer in the context of probation supervision, even if that means that the convicted person must be treated for his tension problems and / or limited coping skills, at Kairos or a similar institution.

As a special condition, it is forbidden for the convicted person to make contact with the complainant during the entire probationary period (born on the date of birth of the respondent at the place of birth of the declarant) unless this is done in consultation with and after permission from the probation service within the framework of the access arrangements with the minor children of the complainant and the convicted person, as long as the probation officer considers this necessary.

Sets as a special condition that the convicted person will adhere to the agreements and instructions (with regard to the children ) of the Youth Protection or a similar responsible body.

Orders the probation service to supervise compliance with the aforementioned special condition (s) and to supervise the convicted person for that purpose .

Recommends that the time taken by the accused before the implementation of that decision only in Article 27, paragraph, or Article 27a of the Code of Criminal will be referred to as pre-trial detention was spent in the execution of the sentence of imprisonment reduced , in so far as that time has not already been deducted from another penalty.

Sentences the suspect to community service for the duration of 100 (one hundred) hours , if not properly performed, to be replaced by 50 (fifty) days in custody .

Imposes on the measure restricting the freedom that the convicted person will in no way - directly or indirectly - contact, seek or have in any way with the declarant (born on the date of birth the declarant at the birthplace declarant), unless this in consultation with and after permission from the probation and after-care service takes place within the framework of the access arrangement with the minor children of the complainant and the convicted person. Recommends that replacement custody will be applied in case the measure is not met. The duration of this replacement detention is 14 days for every time the measure is not complied with, up to a maximum of 6 months.

Application of the replacement custody does not abolish the obligations under the imposed measure.

Recommends that the imposed measure be immediately enforceable.

Ordered instead of the execution of the sentence, insofar as conditionally imposed by judgment of the police judge in the court of s-Hertogenbosch of 23 February 2017 with public prosecutor number 01-215631-16, namely a prison sentence for the duration of 1 month, a community service sentence for the duration of 60 (sixty) hours , in the absence of proper performance, to be replaced by 30 (thirty) days in custody .

Applies to the suspended order for pre-trial detention.

Thus pointed out by

M. Keppels, chairman,

RW van Zuijlen and AJ Smit, counselors,

in the presence of J. de Jong, Registrar,

and pronounced in open court on 2 July 2019.

Official report of the incident in the same case at the public hearing of the court of 2 July 2019.

Nowadays:

RW van Zuijlen, chairman,

WCJ Stienen, Advocate General,

WCS Huijbers, Registrar.

The chairman proclaims the matter.

The suspect is not present in the hearing room.

The chairman pronounced the judgment.

Of which this official report is drawn up, which has been established and signed by the chairman and the clerk.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 5406