Content indication
grounds for placing under supervision no longer exist.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-01-08
Publication date
2019-01-22
Case number
200.244.090 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 6441, Other
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.244.090 / 01

Court case number: C15 / 268028 / JU RK 17-2197

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 8 January 2019 concerning

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. N. Schuerman in Rotterdam,

and

the Child Protection Board ,

established in Haarlem,

respondent on appeal,

to be called: the council .

The following are also considered as stakeholders:

- the father (hereinafter referred to as: the father );

- the minor minor (hereinafter referred to as: X);

- the certified institution Stichting de Jeugd- & Gezinsbeschermers Noord-Holland (hereinafter referred to as: the GI).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the juvenile court in the court of Noord-Holland, location Alkmaar (hereinafter: the juvenile court ) of 13 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother appealed on 9 August 2018 against the decision of 13 July 2018.


2.2
The Council submitted a statement of defense on 4 September 2018.


2.3
The chairman spoke with X prior to the hearing, in the presence of the clerk. The content of this conversation was briefly and concisely stated during the session.


2.4
A fax was received at the court on 20 November 2018 from the mother with an attachment.


2.5
The oral hearing took place on November 22, 2018. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. A;

- the GI, represented by Mr. B;

The father , although quite summoned, did not appear.


3 The facts

3.1
From the (now dissolved divorce ) marriage of the mother and the father - as far as relevant here - X was born in 2002.

The parents have joint custody of X. X is staying with the mother .


3.2
By order of this court of 13 November 2018, the mother 's request to suspend the operation of the contested decision was rejected.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, X - at the request of the Board to that effect - was placed under the supervision of the GI for the duration of one year, namely until 13 July 2019.


4.2
The mother requests, with the annulment of the contested decision, to reject the request of the council .


4.3
The council requests that the mother 's request be rejected and that the contested decision be confirmed. At the hearing, the council amended its request in the sense that the council requests that the contested decision be ratified to date.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The court may a 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW): Pursuant to Article 1 minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.

At the discretion of the Court of Appeal is the question whether these grounds were present in the present case at the time of the adoption of the contested decision and whether this is still the case today.


5.2
The mother takes the position that the juvenile court judge wrongly took a decision without hearing the mother after the arrest. The mother has never received a summons. Moreover, it is unclear whether the Council has submitted any new information. The mother has been denied the opportunity to respond to the new information from the council . Moreover, the juvenile court judge wrongly placed X under supervision . There is no serious threat to development . If so, then it is a custodynot necessary and contrary to Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) The mother knows where to find the way to providing assistance in the voluntary framework, if necessary. She had a good collaboration with the Child and Youth Trauma Center (KJTC). X stopped the treatment himself because he no longer felt that treatment was necessary.

The council report is outdated and lacks the recent development of X. After the council investigation, he went to another school, where he achieved much better results. There are no worries about X 's social environment . The mother can support the worries about the family, but the situation has improved considerably. The attitude of the mother towards the council is not characteristic of her attitude towards assistance . The council went carelessly and did not recognize its role in the disturbed relationship with the mother , according to the mother .


5.3
In its statement of defense, the Council argues that the mother was given the opportunity at various times to make her vision known. She was summoned for the session of 12 July 2018, but did not appear. In addition, the grounds for placing under supervision are met. There is no outdated information. In the council investigation of 26 June 2018, the new school of X was approached and the serious concerns persist. X makes a sad and tired impression both at school, at KJTC and at the council . The mother does not sufficiently acknowledge the worries and is not always open about this. There is also a pattern visible that she rejects and mistrustsdrafts to emergency services . She does not sufficiently accept the required assistance .

At the hearing on appeal, the council changed its position in the sense that X was rightly placed under supervision at the time of the contested decision , but that the circumstances have now changed so that the grounds for supervision are no longer met . The mother now appears to accept assistance , there is motivation for treatment at KJTC and X is doing well at school, according to the council .


5.4
The GI stated at the hearing on appeal that the execution of the supervision order has not yet started, because the case has not yet been allocated internally. Although there are concerns about X, the mother is involved and has also done a lot on her own initiative. The added value of a supervision order can be questioned now that the mother 's request for help is missing, according to the GI.


5.5
The court considers as follows. From the documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal, the following has become apparent, among other things. Based on the involvement of the council with X in the criminal law framework, a protection investigation into X was started. This raised concerns about his cognitive development , frequent absenteeism , poor school performance, gloom and disturbing gaming behavior. His past is characterized by tensions between his parents , who split up in 2012. With his fatherX has not been in contact for about six years. X also has two sisters, Y and Z. The situation around Z, which has attempted suicide, also put pressure on the family. Due to the characteristics of PTSD and behavioral disorder NAO, X was referred to the KJTC, where he started on July 31, 2017 with individual treatment in the form of trauma-oriented cognitive behavioral therapy. Parallel to this treatment, parental guidance is offered to the mother . Treatment at the KJTC was stopped early.

X is a boy with a burdened past. Multiple factors posed a serious threat to his development , which has translated into concerns in multiple areas, as mentioned above. By stopping treatment at the KJTC and not accepting any other assistance , the help required in the voluntary framework was insufficiently accepted. The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that at the time of the contested decision the grounds for granting supervision were present.

In the meantime, however, it has become apparent that X is in another school and that he is doing better. He gets good grades and - as he himself clearly expressed in the conversation with the chairman - he sometimes fails, but this omission has decreased considerably. Z, who currently lives and studies in Groningen, is doing better and the family situation has also stabilized as a result. It also appeared that the mother X has again registered with the KJTC for treatment and X has indicated that she wants to complete this treatment. With this state of affairs, taking into account the position of the council , the court of appeal is of the opinion that the worries about X have been reduced and can be overcome by assistancein the voluntary framework. The Court of Appeal assumes that the treatment of X will actually take place. Therefore, the grounds for X 's supervision of supervision are no longer being met . Now that the mother in the appeal has been given the opportunity to present her arguments and to respond to the documents submitted by the council , her complaint is that the juvenile court judge has wrongly made a decision without hearing the mother - whatever they say - healed by the appeal.

The foregoing implies that the contested decision will be annulled insofar as it relates to the period from now on, whereby the preliminary request of the council will be rejected to that extent. In so far as the contested decision concerns the period to date, it will be ratified.


5.6
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

annul the decision whose appeal relates to the supervision of X from now on and,

ratifies the decision whose appeal is otherwise;

requests the Registrar to send a copy of this decision to the Registrar of the Court of Noord-Holland, location Alkmaar, civil law department, family and juvenile law team, for the attention of the public register, pursuant to the provisions of the Authority Registers Decree .

This decision was made by J. Kok, CE Buitendijk and JW Brunt, in the presence of the clerk, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 8 January 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 61