Content indication
Access arrangement . For 9 years everything has been tried to give the father a position in the children 's lives and to establish contact . That did not work. The children now indicate that they do not want to contact the father . Court, the applicant father to deal out to children to give peace so that they send their development tasks .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-14
Publication date
2019-02-20
Case number
200.240.688 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
EB 2019/43
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.240.688 / 01

(Case number Court of Zwolle-Lelystad 169976 / FL RK 10-1357, Case number Court of Central Netherlands C / 07/169976 / FL RK 10-1357)

decision of 14 February 2019

on

applicant, residing in A, applicant on appeal, hereinafter referred to as: the father , lawyer J. Nieuwstraten, Rotterdam,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

defendant on appeal, hereinafter referred to as: the mother , lawyer mr. GA Nandoe Tewarie in Leiden.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the Child Protection Board in the Central Netherlands region , with offices in Utrecht, hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The proceedings at first instance
The court of appeal refers, to the extent relevant here, to the orders of the Zwolle-Lelystad court, location Lelystad of 16 April 2010, 13 September 2010, 30 November 2011, 21 June 2012 and 1 August 2012, of the (juvenile court judge in the) Central Court of the Netherlands, location Lelystad of January 16, 2013, of the Court of Central Netherlands, location of Almere of May 27, 2015, April 18, 2016, March 7, 2017 and March 13, 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.

2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 8 June 2018; - the statement of defense (also incidental appeal) with production (s); - the statement of defense (incidental appeal); - a journal report from mr. Nieuwstraten of 19 July 2018 with production; - a journal report from mr. Nieuwstraten of 17 September 2018 with production (s); - a journal report from mr. Nandoe Tewarie of 4 December 2018 with production (s).
2.2
The oral hearing took place on 14 December 2018. The parties and their lawyers are thereby released and further on behalf of the council appeared C and D.


3 Facts

3.1
Two children were born from the affective relationship that the parties had with each other : - the minor1, born in 2007 (hereinafter: the minor1) and;

- the minor2, born in 2009 (hereinafter: the minor2).
3.2
The mother is solely responsible for the parental authority over them. The father recognized the minor1 on 3 September 2007 with the consent of the mother and recognized the minor2 on 28 September 2010 with substitute permission from the court.
3.3
After the relationship break, the father initially had contact with the children in consultation with the mother . This has not been the case since October 2009.


3.4
The present proceedings were initiated by the father in a petition dated 7 April 2010, in which he informed the court, as far as relevant here, of an access arrangement between him and the children, meaning that both children will stay with him for one day during the weekend and one full weekend in the month that there will be telephone contact between the children and the man on a weekday around 5 p.m., for example on a Wednesday and that the children will spend half of the holidays with him.


3.5
The court then issued interim decisions as mentioned under 1 above .
3.6
In the contested decision of 13 March 2018, the court rejected the father 's request for the establishment of access arrangements between him and the children, the minor1 and the minor2. This is the subject of the present appeal by the father .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The father requests the Court of Appeal to order, as far as possible enforceable in stock: 1. to annul the contested decision and to re-establish a right of access between the father and the children to be built up under the supervision of a court appointed by the court expert to be designated; 2. The Board or another expert to contribute to research to do to parental alienation and that if it does seem to be, to provide that assistance should be used at this point; 3. if possible one to issue supervision status. 4.2 The mother requests the court to reject the father 's requests or to take such a decision as the court considers appropriate. At the hearing it was explained on behalf of the mother that the incidental appeal concerns a transfer and that this can be considered withdrawn.

5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
When assessing a request such as the present one, the starting point must be that a child has the right to interact with his or her parents and those who are in a close personal relationship with him or her. This right is, as regards not the authority responsible parent and the person in a close personal relationship with the child is guaranteed by Article 8 European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) and Article 1: 377a paragraph 1 of the Civil Code (BW) and, as regards the child , not only by the latter provision, but also by Article 9, paragraph 3, International Convention on the Rights of the Childand Article 24, paragraph 3, Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The judge can only deny the parent charged with custody the right to interact with the child on the grounds listed in article 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code, all of which are related to the child's important interests . Under Article 1: 247 (3) of the Dutch Civil Code, the parent charged with custody is under an obligation to promote the development of his child 's ties with the other parent (see Supreme Court March 28, 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 748 ).
5.2
If the court the grounds that the authority responsible parent forward to any assistance to be given to the creation or implementation of an access arrangement insufficiently eight, in the short term, he must take all measures appropriate in a given case to the authority responsible to encourage the parent to cooperate in this. This obligation is based on the (positive) obligation of the national authorities, including the judge, arising from Article 8 of the ECHR to make every effort to ensure the right to family life between parents and their childrenpossible (ECtHR 17 April 2012, case 805/09). An active attitude may be required from the judge all the more if the refusal of the parent charged with custody is based on fewer - or even none - good and sufficiently plausible grounds (Supreme Court January 17, 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 91 ).
5.3
In this regard, the Court has found that since the father 's submission of the petition in April 2010 - now nearly nine years ago - everything has been tried in the proceedings at first instance to improve the position of the father in the life of the children to secure and intercourse between the father and the children bring in. In this regard, the documents show, among other things, the following.


5.4
At the session of the court on 7 September 2010, the parties agreed to have the contact handled via E. By the decision of 13 September 2010, the court granted substitute permission to the father to recognize the minor2 and determined that the interaction will be provisional as agreed under the supervision of E. The final decision on the interaction was held with the instruction to the parties to inform the court in six months. The E route has failed. After a number of guided contacts (and postponement) the father haslet the court know by letter of 19 April 2011 that the mediation by E has been terminated and the court asked for a follow-up session. By interim decision of 30 November 2011, the court ordered an investigation into the handling of the case and held the decision.
5.5
The council issued a report on March 28, 2012 and concluded it and recommended handling guided to take place through a gradual build-up. The case was further discussed at the court hearing on 12 June 2012. In the interim decision of 21 June 2012, the court reserved the decision and instructed the parties to inform the court by 31 December 2012, inter alia, about the course of the process at F. In mid-July 2012, parties informed the court that F did not want to guide the parentsand requested to hold the case in connection with mutual (four) discussions. They are looking for an expert. In the interim decision of 1 August 2012, the court reserved the decision and asked the council for advice for alternatives. By (additional) report of 17 October 2012, the Council advised to establish a (provisional) access arrangement of a maximum of two hours per month, whereby it is necessary that in addition Intensive Pedagogical Home Help (IPT) is used.
5.6
By order of 16 January 2013, the court upheld the decision and - enforceable in stock - determined that the mother should report to the Youth Care Agency as soon as possible with a request for the use of IPT and a provisional access arrangement of two hours per month under supervision of and to be shaped by the IPT employee. The council issued a report to the court on 3 June 2013. The council stated in this that it is considered possible, despite the fact that the positive developments observed are still early, that the parents collectively, in cooperation with the social servicesand mediation, will be able to design an appropriate access arrangement .


5.7
The case was further discussed at the hearing on 28 April 2015, on which date the children were provisionally placed under the supervision of the certified institution Samen Veilig Midden Nederland, location Almere (hereinafter: the GI) for the duration of three months. By interim decision of 27 May 2015, the court asked the council for advice and reserved the decision. The board issued on July 13, 2015 report, and it concluded that the child protection measure of supervision order is necessary, given the specific threats in the development of children, which are based on the fact that the children do not get the chance to build a bond with the father because they (with the mother ) do not feel the space to have unimpeded contact with the father . Regarding the association concludes the council that there are no contraindications are of such a nature that there is no intercourse should be and advises the board a visitation two hours every two weeks with a gradual build-up under the supervision and instruction of the family guardian. Like this interactiongoes well can be worked towards unaccompanied contact .
5.8
A request by the mother in summary proceedings for suspension of the implementation of the decision of the court of 16 January 2013 was rejected by judgment of the preliminary relief judge of 25 February 2016. By interim decision of 18 April 2016, the court requested the GI no later than three months after that decision inform the court about the progress of the counseling process (observations from the play therapy of the children from G). The GI reported to the court on 13 July 2016 (production 51) with reference to, among other things, the reports of the play therapy of the children from G (whofather to the court by letter of September 20, 2016). This shows, among other things, that problems found in the children and in relation to intercourse are mainly in the system and that anxiety and tensions are mainly caused by uncertainties surrounding intercourse . For both children no reason for further investigation or therapy is seen.


5.9
By interim decision of 7 March 2017, the court once again held the order with the instruction to inform the GI no later than six months after that decision about the course of the steps taken in establishing contact between the father and the children and the desired progress of the procedure. By letter of 2 August 2017, the GI informed the court in the sense that the interaction causes too much unrest and stress for the children and that efforts from all involved to create that interaction that aggravates stress rather than reduces it. Thedealing was stopped in July 2017 after multidisciplinary consultation.


5.10
According to the letter of 4 January 2018 to the GI, the Board does not oppose the intention of the GI to end the supervision order , which runs until January 23, 2018. The GI had reported this to the council on November 30, 2017 . According to the council , progress has been made . The goals that were set within the supervision procedure have been picked up and partly achieved. By stopping the interaction , the council states , there is a positive development in the children in many areas . The stress complaintsseem to have decreased considerably. The children thrive on play therapy, the school goes well and IPT is concluded positively. The only goal that has not been achieved is to achieve structural contact with the father . The father can not be blamed for this. The children do not want to go . It is unclear why. The case was further discussed at the hearing of the court of January 19, 2018. Subsequently, the court made a final decision on March 19, 2018, as stated in 3.6.


5.11
At the hearing of the court on December 14, 2018, it was explained on behalf of the council that the children are in a dire situation in view of the lack of the father, but that they are doing (still) well, so that there is insufficient ground for the custody requested by the father . The council finds it important for the children that this line is maintained. The lengthy struggle between the parents has destroyed a lot. The children seem out of self-protection and from their dependent position for the motherhave chosen. the minor1 and the minor2 are trapped. However , the council does not consider an investigation of parental rejection as requested by the father to be appropriate because it will only bring new tension to them while the children need rest. The council no longer sees opportunities to get things moving and advises parents to stop fighting. For the father , this means in particular that he must give the children space and time and for the mother that she must engage a neutral person with whom thechildren can talk. The council advises the court to ratify the contested decision so that the children can rest and they can focus on their developmental tasks . In the given circumstances, according to the Council, the establishment of an access arrangement or further investigation , or an (access) supervision order, is more harmful to the children than the father 's lack .
5.12
The court of appeal can agree with the decision of the court in which the request of the man to determine an access arrangement between him and the children and with the considerations on which the court has based it. takes over, after his own research , and adds the following.

From what has been considered above, the contents of the file and the proceedings at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has shown that from the start of the procedure - now almost 9 years ago - very many forms of assistance have been deployed, initiated by parents themselves or by involved authorities, to arrive at a structural access arrangement between the father and the children . This assistance has been aimed at the parents themselves, the mother's family and the children themselves and has nevertheless not led to a positive result. On the contrary, the childrenhave become less and less willing to have contact with the father over the years and they indicate that they have not wanted to have contact with the father for some time now. The cause of this point of view has not become clear , also within the children 's therapy . However, the court is clear that parents , despite efforts in recent years to bring to the the aid charted course, have not been succeeded as parents get aligned toward the children and that the boundaries of assistance at that point.

In the opinion of the court of appeal, the time has now come to end the years of struggle and the legalization of the ex-partner problem of the parents , so that the children can carry on their development tasks in peace . In this context, the Court agrees with the council that the current upward trend in the (other) development of the children should not be disturbed . In view of the resistance that has arisen among the children over the years, forced contact between the children and the father can also be expectedcurrently have a counterproductive effect in the sense that the resistance will only increase as a result. The children are trapped and need space. A new investigation (aimed at parental rejection ) as requested by the father or a new supervision order will disrupt the peace and space intended for the children and is therefore not in the children's interest .
5.13
The Court of Appeal therefore comes to the same conclusion as the court and the council , namely that establishing an access arrangement between the children and the father would currently conflict with weighty interests of the children and this also applies to a new investigation or a new one child protection measure .

6 The conclusion
The contested decision will be ratified. The more or otherwise requested will be rejected.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the order of the (juvenile court judge in) Central Court of the Netherlands, location Almere, of 13 March 2018;

rejects what has been requested more or differently.

This decision was made by mrs. A. Smeeïng-van Hees, R. Feunekes and AW Beversluis, assisted by AJTh. Harkema as clerk and was pronounced in public on February 14, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 1635