Content indication
Joint authority ? After 3 failed aid trajectories , investigation into the question about authority . If necessary, extension to protection research is possible.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-03-28
Publication date
2019-04-03
Case number
200.245.395 / 01
Procedure
Interim decision
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.245.395 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/144928 / FA RK 15-1815)

decision of 28 March 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: KS Lindeman, LL.M.

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: S. Duurland in Amsterdam.


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the orders of the Northern Netherlands court, location Leeuwarden, of 17 February 2016, 19 October 2016 and 6 June 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s) of the mother , received on 4 September 2018;

- the defense;

- a letter from mr. Lindeman of 18 September 2018 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. Lindeman of 23 October 2018 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. Lindeman of 21 January 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Lindeman of 13 February 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. Lindeman of 18 February 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Duurland of 27 February 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 1 March 2019. The mother and father appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. Mr. Lindeman also spoke on the basis of a pleading document submitted by her.


3 The facts

3.1
The mother and father (hereafter: the parents ) had an affective relationship until the second half of 2014 and lived together in B. The minor1 (hereafter the minor1) was born from this relationship in 2013. The father has recognized the minor1. the minor1 lives with the mother .


3.2
The mother also has a daughter from a previous relationship, the minor2, born in 2008, who lives with the mother and the minor1. The father has from a previous relationship a daughter, C, born in 2006 and a son, D, born in 2008. The father currently has no contact with these two children .


3.3
After the relationship was broken, the mother went to live in A with the minor1 and the minor2. The parents then made agreements in mutual consultation about a visitation arrangement under which the minor1 from the beginning of 2015 stayed with the father once every fortnight from Saturday 10.00 am to Sunday late afternoon , as well as a number of days during the summer holidays. In September 2015, the mother limited this arrangement to a Saturday every fourteen days from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.


3.4
On 27 October 2015, the father submitted a request to the Northern Netherlands court, location Leeuwarden (hereinafter: the court), and - in short - requested that he and his mother be charged with parental authority over the minor1 and to establish a care scheme .


3.5
By interim decision of 17 February 2016, the court stayed the case and referred the parents to a course at the E (hereafter: E). This route did not get off the ground.


3.6
By interim decision of 19 October 2016, the case was re-arrested and the parties were referred to a mediation process. This process did not lead to agreements about interaction .


3.7
In September 2017 has the mother of the interaction between the minderjarige1 and father stop put.


3.8
In the contested decision, the court - enforceable in stock - determined that from now on the father and mother will jointly have custody of the minor1. Furthermore, the court, the parents again referred to the E and the case regarding the care regime detained pending the progress of the project at the E.


3.9
From the closing letter of the E, dated December 6, 2019 (the court understands: 2018), it appears that the E has decided to close the assistance from the E because no agreement can be reached between the parents about how to complete the process at the E and (with that also) the structure of the relationship between the minor1 and the father .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The authority over the minor1 is in dispute between the parties1.


4.2
The mother lodged an appeal with five complaints against the decision of 6 June 2018. These complaints are intended to address the full appeal in full. The mother requests the annulment of the contested decision with regard to the decision on the authority and yet to determine that the father 's request to be co-charged with the authority is rejected, or at least denied him.


4.3
The father puts forward a defense and requests the mother to be declared inadmissible in her action, or at least to dismiss her allegations as unfounded and to ratify the contested decision, costs in law.


4.4
The court will jointly assess the complaints.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Article 1: 253c (1) of the Dutch Civil Code (hereinafter: the Civil Code), the father competent to the custody , who has never exercised the custody jointly with the mother , may request the court to charge the parents with the joint custody of the child . The second paragraph of this article stipulates that if the request is intended to entrust parents with joint custody and the other parent does not agree with joint custody , the request will only be rejected if

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child will become trapped or lost between the parents and that it is not to be expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, or b. rejection is otherwise necessary in the best interest of the child .


5.2
The mother argues that the relationship between the parents is tense, that they mistrust each other and that they are unable to communicate with each other , let alone make agreements about the exercise of authority . The mother refers to the recent failure of the E track. According to her, the father only wanted to make concrete agreements there about interaction and not to work on restoring trust and communication between the parents . This means that a third process has now failed to improve communicationand it must be concluded that the parents are at least unable to make agreements about situations that may occur around the minor1, such that the minor1 does not get stuck and lost between the parents . The mother points out in this connection that the already repeatedly happened that the father refuses to authorize aid to the minderjarige1.


5.3
The father states first and foremost that joint authority must be the starting point. There has been joint authority from the contested decision and this has not led to problems. The father does not obstruct the mother in her task as a caring parent and he does not interfere with the decisions to be made about the minor1. The father is critical about whether help is needed for the minor1 and therefore he first asks what is going on and what the intention is before giving permission to get help. It is true that communication between parentsis difficult but according to the father the minor1 is not bothered by this. Because the father now has authority , for example, he receives information from the school of the minor1, which he would not otherwise receive. If the authority again lies with the mother , there is a risk that the father will be left out of play, as the court also considered.


5.4
From the documents and the proceedings at the hearing, the court found that the relationship between the parents is very poor. Aid programs started for this purpose either did not get off the ground or failed. The Court of Appeal considers it extremely worrying that in the recently terminated E-trajectory it turned out that the parents were not even able to make agreements about the progress of the trajectory and the planning of the counseling moments . Both parents seem unable or unwilling to see their share in the cause of the failure of the process and seek this primarily from the other. In that respect it seems to be the parents, because of the lingering struggle that they are fighting with each other, lacking self-insight. For the minor1 the premature termination of this process led to him - after seeing his father three times under supervision - again having no contact with the father , which should at least be confusing for him. Although the question about the interaction between the minor1 and the father is not before the court, the court cannot see this issue and the E-course that has been used for this purpose and which has since failed as a whole, separate from the question about authority present here . Partly in view of these recent developments, the court is concerned, has great concerns about the minor1 and considers himself insufficiently informed on the basis of the information currently available to be able to make a responsible decision about the authority . Therefore, the court will treat of the case and the counsel for the child (hereinafter the Board ) requests an investigation to be set to the question about the authority of the minderjarige1. If and insofar as the court in the case on the merits, due to the failure of the E-trajectory, also orders a council investigation, then the council - as far as the court is concerned - is free to do both of these investigationsto combine. In addition, the court explicitly assumes that the council will extend its investigation to a protection investigation if there is reason to do so. The court of appeal will request the council to report on the course of this and will keep the decision pending the report of the council .


6 The decision
The court, before deciding further:

requests the Council to conduct a further investigation (or have it done) as described above under 5.4 and to report on this no later than 1 August 2019 ;

determines that the parties will then be given the opportunity to respond to the report of the council and that the case will in principle be settled on the documents, unless the court of appeal, after a substantiated request from (one of) parties, still orders a hearing, or the Court of Appeal sees an official reason to do so;

keeps every further decision.

This decision was made by EBEM Rikaart-Gerard, IM Dölle and GJ Baken, assisted by J. Robben, as clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 28 March 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 2868