Content indication
Request father terminating home placement daughter and placement with father . Father refuses to view the NIFP report with regard to the parental investigation . He does introduce two psychological examinations . However, these studies provide insufficient information about the parenting skills of the father in relation to the demanded parenting question of the daughter. The daughter stays in the foster home .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-02
Publication date
2019-05-07
Case number
200,253,667 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court of appeal 200.253.667 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/163155 / FJ RK 18-911)

decision of 2 May 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: E. Gürcan in Arnhem.

The following are considered as stakeholders:

the certified institution

William Schrikker Foundation Youth Protection & Youth Probation ,

Based in Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI,

lawyer: LA Huitema in Amsterdam,

the mother ,

living at a secret address,

to be called further: the mother .


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of 31 October 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on January 30, 2019;

- the defense with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr Gürcan of 27 March 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from the GI of 2 April 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr. Gürcan of 5 April 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from Mr. Huitema of 10 April 2019.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 11 April 2019. The father appeared in person, assisted by his lawyer. Her lawyer and Mrs. B appeared on behalf of the GI .


3 The facts

3.1
The father and mother are the parents of the minor (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ), born in 2017. The parents are both charged with custody of the minor .


3.2
The minor was placed under supervision by order of 17 May 2017 . By oral decision of 16 June 2017 (given in writing on 20 June 2017), the juvenile court judge granted an urgent authorization for placement of the minor in a foster care facility . By order dated June 28, 2017, the juvenile court authorization for court custody of the minor provided in a facility for foster care .


3.3
By order of 16 May 2018, the supervision and supervision of the placement of the minor in a foster care facility were extended until 17 May 2019.


3.4
By letter of 14 August 2018, the father requested the GI to terminate the minor 's placement , due to changed circumstances. By letter of 27 August 2018, the GI rejected the father 's request .


3.5
The father filed a petition on September 17, 2018 to the court and requested the court custody of the minor end and to determine the main residence of the minor with the father is determined, at least in the minors with the father is placed.


3.6
By the contested decision of 31 October 2018, the court rejected the father 's requests .


3.7
On December 14, 2018, the GI decided that the minor would be transferred to a foster care facility in C in D.


3.8
On 28 December 2018, the father objected to the decision of the GI of 14 December 2018 and requested that the letter of appeal be upheld and that the contested decision be revised, withdrawn and a new decision, which would be waived. the transfer of minors and will be transferred to court custody of her by her father . By letter of 2 January 2019, the GI rejected the father 's request .


3.9
The father submitted a petition to the court on 15 January 2019 and requested that the decision of the GI of 2 January 2019 be annulled and that the minor be placed with the father .


3.10
By decision of 13 March 2019, the juvenile court dismissed the father 's requests .


3.11
the minor is currently living in a foster family .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
By the contested decision of 31 October 2018, the father 's requests to terminate the minor 's removal from home and to determine that the minor 's principal residence is determined with the father , or at least that the minor is placed with the father , were rejected.


4.2
The father appealed against the contested decision with two complaints. These complaints are intended to raise the full scope of the appeal. The father requests the annulment of the contested decision and to again lawfully, as far as possible enforceable in stock, determine that the removal from home is terminated and that the minor will have her principal residence with the father , or at least that the minor will be placed with the father .


4.3
The GI defends and requests that the father 's requests be rejected and that the contested decision be confirmed.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Under Article 1: 265D, paragraph BW can - as far as is relevant here - the with the authority responsible parent because of changed circumstances, the certified institution requests the home placement to terminate or shorten its duration.

On 27 August 2018, the GI rejected a request by the father to terminate the minor 's placement . The father then approached the juvenile court with the request to terminate the minor 's placement , to which he is entitled on the basis of Article 1: 265d, fourth paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code.


5.2
The court, like the court, is of the opinion that there has been a change of circumstances. After all, the father had two (forensic psychological ) investigations carried out as a second opinion , one by Mrs. E, psychologist and employed by F, and one by Mrs. G, psychologist , court mediator and forensic mediator. As a result of these two investigations , there are changed circumstances on the basis of which the court must assess whether these circumstances lead to the termination of the minor 's placement .


5.3
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the changed circumstances set by the father cannot lead to a termination of the placement of the minor in his or her home and therefore considers as follows.


5.4
The documents show that the father was registered by the GI at the end of 2017 with the NIFP for a parental investigation . This investigation was completed at the end of March 2018, but the father has invoked his legal blocking right, as a result of which the NIFP report was not included in the procedure. As a result, there has been no insight into the parenting skills of the father , although the juvenile court judge made this clear in the decisions of 11 October 2017 (in which it was decided to extend the authorization for out-of- home placement ) and 10 August 2018 (in which an earlier request from the father to terminate the minor 's placement out of home has been rejected) considered important.

In the meantime, the father has had two examinations carried out, one by Mrs Van E and one by Mrs G. The father believes that these studies show that he is capable of raising the minor himself. However, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that these investigations (still) do not sufficiently show that the father has sufficient parenting capacities to educate the minor himself, partly in view of her demand for parenting.


5.5
The court, like the court, is of the opinion that Ms E 's investigation is too limited and contains insufficient information to conclude that the minor could be raised by her father . After all, this study did not provide any insight into the intellectual capacity of the father , the possible presence of (psychiatric) problems and the affective and pedagogical skills of the father in relation to the (increased) parenting needs of the minor . It is precisely these questions (which have been asked within the NIFP study)) are important to be able to determine whether the minor can be placed (back) at home with the father . The Court of Appeal shares the conclusion of the father that the investigation does not offer any room for an interpretation other than that, considering all qualities of the father together, the father cannot take good care of the minor . The mere fact that Mrs. E is a member of the Register of Professionals Complementary Care foundation does not change this.

With regard to Mr G 's investigation, the Court of Appeal first of all considers that this investigation only concerns the functioning of the father and not the minor 's problems in relation to the parenting skills of the father , which is an important aspect for determining whether the minor can be raised by the father . In addition, it is unclear to the court on which question G's research is based, because the research seems to focus primarily on the relationship between the father and the father.minor . The Court of Appeal could therefore at most conclude from this investigation that there are possibilities for an extension of the relationship . Furthermore, in contrast to the father , the court of appeal reads in this G study a reaffirmation of the concerns about the parenting situation with the father . Because there is a developmental delay in the minor (and therefore a demand for upbringing), she is dependent on assistance and needs caregivers who acknowledge the worries and who meet the minor 's needs can connect. From G's report and what emerged at the hearing, the court has not shown that the father fully recognizes the development problems of the minor and the need to work as a parent with professional care providers . The father 's cooperation with social workers is extremely difficult. It is also difficult for counselors with father to discuss other visions than those of the father .


5.6
Moreover, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it is in the interests of the minor that she has no contact with both parents and that she can build a good relationship with both. Through the arrangement and conduct of the father , the chances are that, if the minor only by the father will be raised, the contact between the mother and the minor will stagnate and consequently the development of the minor may be threatened . The fact that the father does not agree with the divorceand want to appeal this, confirms this picture. It is therefore all the more in the best interests of the child to grow up in a neutral place (in the perspective of the foster family ) where she can have no contact with both parents .


5.7
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal must ratify the contested decision.


6 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

confirms the decision of the juvenile court in the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of 31 October 2018.

This decision was made by mrs. JG Idsardi, IA Vermeulen and GBA Brummer, assisted by IG Vos as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 2 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 3885