Content indication
Supervision (Article 1: 255 of the Dutch Civil Code): concerns about the parenting environment and the development of the minor are still fully present.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-19
Publication date
2019-12-11
Case number
200,260,642 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2019: 2704
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.260.642 / 01

Court case number: C / 15/283884 / JU RK 19-104

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 19 November 2019 concerning

the mother ,

residing at residence, municipality X,

applicant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: CC Sneper in Rotterdam,

and

the certified institution William Schrikker Foundation for Youth Protection and Youth Probation ,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following are also considered as stakeholders:

- the minor daughter (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ),

- the father (hereinafter referred to as: the father ), residing in Heerlen.

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location: Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the juvenile court in the court of Noord-Holland, location Haarlem (hereinafter: the juvenile court ) of 13 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 11 June 2019 against the aforementioned decision of 13 March 2019.


2.2
The GI submitted a statement of defense at the hearing on appeal.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 30 September 2019. Appeared are:

- on behalf of the mother , mr. AA Tahavol (lawyer in Rotterdam), acting lawyer for mr. Sneper;

- the GI, represented by the family manager;

- the father ;

- the council , represented by Mrs. DM van Dijk.

The mother did not appear at the hearing, although properly summoned. Mr. Tahavol argued at the hearing on the basis of a pleading note.


3 The facts

3.1
From the marriage of the mother and the father (hereinafter also referred to as: the parents ) dissolved by divorce on 19 May 2015 , the minor was born in 2011. The parents exercise joint custody of the minor . the minor has her principal place of residence with the mother .

The father married his current wife in July 2017 . Child A was born from this relationship on date of birth 1 2016.

The mother has another daughter from a later relationship: child B, born on date of birth 2 2017.


3.2
the minor has been under the supervision of the GI since 3 September 2012 . The supervision order has subsequently been extended each time.


3.3
By order of the District Court North Holland November 15, 2017 is a care arrangement between the father and the minor fixed, meaning that, after the construction scheme in October 2017 to January 2018:

- the minor stays with the father once every two weeks from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., where the father picks up the minor from the mother and the mother picks up the minor from the father ;

- the minor stays with the father on the weekend in which Father's Day falls, the weekend in which the birthday of the father is celebrated, on date of birth 1 (the birthday of child A) and on July 7 (the wedding day of the father with his current wife) ;

- the holidays are divided by halves, in mutual consultation, whereby the GI will determine the duration of the (consecutive) periods that the minor will be staying with the father or mother during the holiday .

This order was ratified by order of the court of October 16, 2018.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision, at the request of the GI for that purpose, extended the supervision of the minor for a period of one year, namely until 14 March 2020.


4.2
The mother requests, with the annulment of the contested decision, primarily to stipulate that the custodial supervision ends three months after the decision to be made, within which efforts must be made to provide assistance in the voluntary framework. In the alternative, the mother requests the court to make such a decision that the court considers appropriate in the interests of the minor , whereby the custodial supervision is in any case extended for a shorter period than for the duration of one year.


4.3
The GI requests that the mother 's requests be rejected and that the contested decision be confirmed.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
At the discretion of the Court of Appeal is the question whether at the time of the contested decision grounds were present for the supervision of the minor and whether these grounds are (still) present.


5.2
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 260, first paragraph, in connection with Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), the juvenile court judge may extend the supervision of a minor by a maximum of one year if a minor grows up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.3
The mother argues that the juvenile judge has wrongly extended the supervision of the minor for a period of one year and argues for this among other things the following. the minor is no longer threatened in her development . She has been open to dealing with the father for a long time and the weekend arrangement is now going well. Therefore, there is no longer a question of a loyalty conflict with the minor . The parents are also working on a parenting planso that the various aspects of the upbringing and care of the minor are properly regulated. In addition, the minor has received a lot of help from Mentaal Beter and has gained more confidence. Concerns about school absence , the mother 's house and the hygiene of the minor are no longer topical. The mother has recently moved from place to province and has arranged the move for the minor well. This is how she has the minor enrolled at a school there and at her new school there has been no unauthorized omission. the minor is also registered with a general practitioner and a dentist and registered for special education. She has also started work at a psychologist (Inter Psy) for trauma treatment and the intention is to call in outpatient counseling through Elker , whereby someone will come to the mother's home twice a week for support. The mother is therefore open to assistance and the cooperation with the GI is good. The grounds for placing under supervision are therefore no longer present and themother wishes to work towards help in the voluntary framework. The mother believes it is in the interests of the minor that there is a (short) transition period so that work can be done towards independence. For that reason, the mother therefore requests that the period of supervision be shortened.


5.4
The GI argues that the juvenile court has rightly extended the supervision order for the duration of one year and argues for this among other things the following. Contrary to what the mother claims, the minor is still seriously threatened in her development . Although the care arrangement with the father now goes ahead, it passes effortlessly and still not have the minor still suffer from the prolonged conflict of loyalty which it is located. Also the parenting planfor the time being it has not got off the ground, there are still concerns about the hygiene and school absence of the minor and the minor has not completed the assistance at Mentaal Beter, which means she is still suffering from anger attacks. In addition, after a fairly stable period for some time, there was again a lot of instability in the home situation of the mother . The relationship between the mother and her previous partner ended at the end of 2018 and this has escalated to such an extent that the mother was not available to the minor and her half-sister. the minor has therefore had to take over caring tasks. It is now also clear that she will have to go to special education. The mother also moved with her children to her new partner in the province on 14 August 2019 , without informing the GI in advance. The new partner has two minor children and the minor has to get used to a new home situation, a new environment and a new school. Although the mother has arranged matters for the minor in the province , there seems to be a pattern involving the mother - depending on the success of her relationship - alternately more or less available for the minor and accept the assistance . After the last relationship break of the mother , the GI's concerns about the mother have increased, also because she was once diagnosed with a so-called disharmonic profile. Since the worries have been practically the same since 2012 or are constantly recurring, a GI behavioral expert will soon discuss whether the minor 's perspective should remain with the mother , according to the GI.


5.5
The father stated at the hearing on appeal that he is concerned about the minor . The care arrangement went well until recently and the minor in the summer even four weeks been with him since the recent relocation of the mother province is again difficult. the minor is often reported sick by the mother, so that the relationship can not continue. The father is therefore against the move to the province and therefore has summary proceedings against the mothertightened. The father also shares the GI's concerns about the school absence and the hygiene of the minor . the minor apparently often arrives late at school and looks unkempt. She regularly stains her clothes and her hair is not combed. The father also shares the concerns about the pattern that the mother shows, as outlined by the GI.


5.6
At the hearing on appeal, the Council stated that it seems that the custodial supervision - due to the pattern that the mother shows - has had little effect to date. For that reason, the Council wonders whether the supervision order is sufficient to remove the serious threat to the development of the minor . The Council advised the Court of Appeal to ratify the contested decision.


5.7
The court considers as follows.

The documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal, among other things, showed the following. the minor is now a seven-year-old girl with a burdened past. The GI has been involved with the family since 2012 in connection with concerns about the parenting skills of the parents , neglect and the conflicting divorce of the parents in 2015. Because the minor has changed his home environment several times and it took a long time before one frequent) make arrangements with the father is established, the minor experienced a lot of instability in her life. In addition, there have long been concerns about the absence from school , the care of the minor and the loyalty conflict in which she finds herself. Although there appeared to be a cautious positive development at the time of the contested decision , because the relationship between the parents had improved somewhat, it has since become clear that the concerns have increased again. The parenting plan has not got off the ground for the time being and the parents had a fierce argument just before the appeal session, as a result of which a contact weekend with the fatherdid not find a way through. The relationship between the parents is therefore still precarious. In addition, the mother is still unable to offer the minor a stable home situation. For example, the previous relationship of the mother was broken off at the end of 2018, with the minor witnessing domestic violence between the mother and her then partner. the minor was attached to this partner and the mother was insufficiently available and present for the minor at the time , which means the minor didn't get the care she needed. Next is the mother in August 2019 suddenly a minor and child B moved into her new partner (and two children ) in the province province. This means that the minor has to get used to a new family situation, environment and school. It has also become clear that the minor will have to go to special primary education. The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that the concerns about the parenting environment and the development of the minor are still fully present and that the minor grows up in such a way that it is threatened in its development .

The Court of Appeal is furthermore of the opinion that it has been sufficient that the mother does not accept the care that is necessary in connection with the removal of the development threat from the minor or insufficient. Although the mother had a good cooperation with Amstelring and she independently found a psychologist and a school for the minor in the province , the acceptance of the care depends on whether the mother feels a 'click' with the care providers and on the stability of her relationship at that time. There seems to be a pattern with themother where her capacity grows in the period in which her relationship goes well. Then she accepts the assistance and is independently able to get help for the minor . However their relationship is not going well, such as the end of 2018 were the case, accept the mother of the aid is not enough and it is available for minor causing the minor does not get the care they have just over desperately needed. The Court of Appeal considers this pattern of the mother to be worrying and not in the interests of the minor .


5.8
In view of all the above considerations, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the grounds for the (extension of) the supervision of the minor were present at the time of the contested decision and are still present. The court will therefore ratify the contested decision and reject the mother 's requests .


5.9
All this leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal is made;

the Registrar under the provisions of the Decree authority registers a copy of this statement to be forwarded to the clerk of the court Noord-Holland (location Haarlem), Department civil, family and juvenile law team for the attention of the public register;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by TAM Tijhuis, LL.M., CE Buitendijk, and M. Fiege, LL.M., in the presence of SCGA Duivenvoorde, LL.M.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 4360