Content indication
Extension placement placement . Available in clear language.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-16
Publication date
2019-09-18
Case number
200,254,840
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.254.840

(case number court Overijssel 223331)

decision of 16 May 2019

on

the father ,

residing at domicile, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: mr. EAM Ramakers in Maastricht,

and

the certified institution William Schrikker Foundation for Youth Protection & Youth Probation ,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the William Schrikker Foundation.

The following are considered as other stakeholders:

the mother ,

living at home,

to be called further: the mother ,

M. Rijs in Enschede, lawyer,

and

the foster parents of a child ,

to be called: the foster parents .


1 The procedure with the court
The decision of the child judge in the court of Overijssel, court Almelo, of November 21, 2018 (with case number 223331) states how the proceedings at the court went.


2 The court proceedings

2.1
The court's file contains:

- the appeal of the father with appendices, received by the court on February 20, 2019;

- the defense of the William Schrikker Foundation with appendices 1 to 12;

- a journal report from mr. Ramakers of 8 April 2019 with annex 7;

- a letter from the William Schrikker Foundation of 12 April 2019 with appendices 1 and 2.


2.2
The court session was on 18 April 2019. The father came to the court. Instead of Mr. Ramakers, Mr. JP van Mulken came to the session to assist the father . Furthermore, ambulatory attendant father , the outpatient supervisor of the father present. The mother 's lawyer was present on behalf of the mother . The mother did not come to the hearing herself. On behalf of the William Schrikker foundation, employee 1 William Schrikker St. and employee 2 William Schrikker St. were at the session. The Council for Child Protection was also invited, but informed the court before the hearing that he would not attend the hearing.


3 The facts

3.1
The father and the mother are the parents of child (hereafter: child ), born on date 2010 instead. The father and the mother have custody of the child .


3.2
child has been under supervision since November 24, 2011 . The juvenile court judge in court Overijssel, seat location Almelo ( 'the juvenile court ) decided on November 21, 2018 the child any longer under supervision remains, until November 24, 2019.


3.3
On January 10, 2018, the juvenile court judge gave permission to the William Schrikker Foundation to place the child out of the house until November 24, 2018, and to have it live in a foster home. The father did not agree with this and appealed. On July 19, 2018, this court ruled that the decision of the juvenile court is correct.


3.4
child has lived with foster parents since 17 January 2018 .


4 What the court is about

4.1
On November 21, 2018, the juvenile judge gave permission to the William Schrikker Foundation to allow the child to live in a foster family for another year , until November 24, 2019, and that this permission also applies if an appeal is lodged.

The father has asked the juvenile court judge to allow the child to live with a foster family for four months longer and to instruct the Netherlands Institute for Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology (NIFP) or another expert to investigate - in summary - what the child needs for his upbringing, whether the father can do the upbringing (with help) and the contact of the child with the non-caregiving parent . In addition, invited the father to child to hear and a guardian ad litemfor baby naming. The juvenile court has rejected all these requests from the father .


4.2
The father does not agree with the decision of the juvenile court . The father has therefore appealed and requests the court to annul the decision of the juvenile court of November 21, 2018. He wants the William Schrikker Foundation's request to be able to place the child out of the home for a longer period of time. If the court does not do so, the father requests the court to instruct an expert to investigate .


4.3
The William Schrikker Foundation does not agree with the father and asks the court

to declare the father inadmissible in his appeal or to reject his request and to confirm the decision of 21 November 2018.


5 The reasons for the decision
Relocation


5.1
Article 1: 265b paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code states the following:

If this is necessary in the interests of the care and upbringing of the minor or to examination of his mental or physical condition, the jug juvenile court , the certified institution referred to in section 1.1 of the juvenile law, which is responsible for the execution of the supervision order on authorize her request to place the minor out of the house during the day and night.

This means that the William Schrikker Foundation can ask the juvenile court permission to place the child out of the house. The juvenile court judge gives permission if this is necessary for the care and upbringing of a child or if this is necessary for research into the mental or physical well-being of the child .

The William Schrikker Foundation can always ask the juvenile court judge to place the child out of the house for another year. This is stated in Article 1: 265c paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code.


5.2
The court of appeal finds that the juvenile court judge has taken a correct decision. Like the juvenile court, the Court of Appeal believes that it is necessary for the care and upbringing of a child that the child stays in foster care for longer .


5.3
The decision of July 19, 2018 of this court is that the parents of children already from 2011 disagree about the interaction between father and child . This is very restless for child . This gives him the feeling that he has to choose between his parents and has a lot of problems with that. This is called a loyalty problem . The decision of 19 July 2018 also states that psychological investigations of a child by Infano and Jarabee show that the behavioral problems of a child come from the way in which the parentsdealing with each other and the circumstances in which he grew up and was brought up. The parents can also not offer him 'structural pedagogical safety'. The court found it necessary for the child to live and be raised somewhere other than with their parents . Somewhere where it's safe for him. The court of appeal is of the opinion that these reasons still apply for out-of- home placement .


5.4
There are still concerns about child behavior . Jarabee writes in the intervention report of April 2019 the child during visiting times with the father is very alert and his behavior continuously aligns its surroundings . Because of his alertness, he always seems to notice tensions or stress with the father and to respond to this. According to Jarabee, a child needs structure and rules in a safe place to experience positive contact with his father . The Court therefore finds that child can not live with the father , even as the fatherreceive help in raising a child .


5.5
The father says he wants to do his best to improve the contact between him and the mother . The parents have had help from several agencies in the past, but there is still a lot of conflict between them. The court does not expect this to change in the short term. The lawyer of the mother is at the session said that the mother understands that child not the father can live because of the conflict between the parents . The loyalty issue of child would be greater if he the father would live.

Expert investigation


5.6
Article 810a paragraph 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure states the following:

In cases concerning the supervision of minors or the termination of parental authority or guardianship , the judge appoints an expert at the request of a parent and after consultation with that parent , provided that this can also lead to the decision of the case and the interest of the child does not oppose this.

This means that the father can ask the court to instruct an expert to investigate . That investigation must be important for the court's decision. The court does not instruct an expert to investigate if the interests of the child dictate otherwise.


5.7
The father requests the court to instruct NIFP as an expert to investigate the questions included in the appeal. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that an investigation into these questions cannot partly lead to a decision on the case. The most important reason why the court believes it is necessary for the child to remain in the foster family is the struggle between the parents that are bothering the child . This problem is not solved by the research that the father requests.


5.8
The court also finds that the best interests of the child are opposed to an expert investigation. The William Schrikker Foundation said at the session that the child has not yet found its place in the foster family . child always tries to adjust. According to the William Schrikker Foundation, he must learn to be a child . The court of appeal is of the opinion that the child should now be given a rest so that he can develop in the foster family . An investigation causes more ambiguity in the child, so there is child no rest. Just like the William Schrikker Foundation, the court finds that this is harmful to children . That is why the court does not instruct an expert to investigate .


6 The conclusion
The court of appeal is of the opinion that the decision of the juvenile court of 21 November 2018 must be upheld . The court will therefore ratify the decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the juvenile court in the court of Overijssel, seat Almelo, of November 21, 2018, as far as subject to the judgment of the court.

This decision was made by mrs. R. Feunekes, IGMT Weijers-van der Marck and MHF van Vugt, assisted by Mr. H. Bouhuys as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 16 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4243