Content indication
No grounds for placing under supervision .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-01-22
Publication date
2019-02-05
Case number
200.242.817 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.242.817 / 01

Court case number: C / 13/648730 / JE RK 18-540

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 22 January 2019 concerning

the father ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: JJM Kleiweg in Amsterdam,

and

the Child Protection Board ,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

to be called: the council .

The following are considered as stakeholders:

- the mother (hereinafter: the mother );

- the certified Amsterdam Youth Protection Agency (hereinafter: the GI);

- the minor (hereinafter: the minor ).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ) of 20 June 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The father appealed on 19 July 2018 against the decision of 20 June 2018.


2.2
A letter from the council of 19 October 2018 with an attachment was received at the court on 23 October 2018.

In addition, a fax message from the mother of 10 November 2018 was received on 17 January 2019 .


2.3
The oral hearing took place on November 16, 2018. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by his lawyer;

- Mr A. Witting on behalf of the council ;

- the family manager on behalf of the GI;

- the mother , accompanied by an employee of the Salvation Army .


3 The facts

3.1
From the (broken off in 2013) relationship of the mother and father , the minor was born in 2010. The father and mother jointly exercise authority over the minor . the minor lives with the father .


3.2
By order dated April 7, 2014 the juvenile court , the minor under supervision required for the duration of one year and an interim care arrangement between him and the mother determined. The supervision order has not been extended afterwards.


3.3
By order dated October 8, 2014 is the principal residence of the minor with the father determined and a care arrangement between the minor and the parent determined.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision placed the minor under the supervision of the GI for a period of one year, from 20 June 2018 to 20 June 2019 , in accordance with the request of the Council .


4.2
The father requests, with the annulment of the contested decision, to reject the preliminary request of the council .


4.3
The Council requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Article 1: the right to a 255, first paragraph, Civil Code (BW) minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
The father states that the grounds of Article 1: 255 of the Dutch Civil Code are not met. There is no question of a seriously threatened development of the minor . The minor is doing well , also at school. The only concern there is is contact with the mother, who is not tax-free due to her alcohol abuse. In the father 's opinion , this contact cannot (yet) be extended, but he does not feel that he is being taken seriously by the (new) family manager. The father participates in all assistance and takes an active role; for example, he has registered the minor forchild exercise therapy at school, because there were concerns about his motor development and (over) weight. He also ensures that the minor is exercising sufficiently because he is overweight. In the father 's opinion , assistance in the voluntary framework is sufficient , just as it did before the contested decision. At the hearing on appeal, he repeated that he would continue to cooperate in providing assistance in the voluntary framework.


5.3
At the hearing on appeal, the Council found that the intentions of both the father and the mother are good, but that there are also concerns. In the first place, the council is concerned about the mother . Because of her alcohol consumption and the treatment thereof, she has been unpredictable for a long time for the minor and that period has left his mark on him. Furthermore, the relationship between the father and mother worries the council . Because the parents are constantly disqualifying each other and this pattern has been occurring for years, the minor can go into onehit a loyalty conflict. Finally, the council is concerned about the overprotective attitude of the father towards the minor . The father acts primarily from his need for control and protection . Although the father has taken some positive steps, he focuses on his own experience. There is a symbiotic relationship between the father and the minor , which is not conducive to the self-reliance, self-confidence and independence of the minor , who should grow in view of his age.

Since the voluntary framework does not take adequate pressure to remove the aforementioned concerns, considers the Board a supervision order required. Agreements must be made with the father and he must then be held to that.


5.4
The mother stated at the hearing on appeal that the contact between her and the father is going better, but that they are not yet able to make agreements.

The mother is doing well ; she is healthy and she has work in a dialysis center. A relapse in alcohol consumption continues to lurk due to the lack of the minor . She puts his safety first and has therefore agreed that she will perform a bladder test prior to her contact with the minor .

The mother fully agrees with the supervision order . The father takes good care of the minor , but the minor also needs his mother and without the pressure of being placed under supervision the mother does not trust that a good access arrangement will be established.


5.5
The family manager stated at the hearing on appeal that the minor is doing reasonably well . He has been seen by the school doctor and he has found that the minor remains on the heavy side. The family manager has drawn up strict rules for dealing with the mother and they seem to work, but around the relationship the father and mother have collisions that they fight out via e-mail and telephone. The supervision order is necessary for the father to cooperate with the mother ; without supervision , thefather did not cooperate in the access arrangement , according to the GI.


5.6
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, it is not sufficiently clear from the documents and the proceedings at the hearing that there was a concrete, serious development threat from the minor at the time of the contested decision and at this time. The main concern of the Board (or GI) is located in the conflictual relationship between the parents and their impact on minors and the lack of visitation with the mother as a result thereof. It is certain that the parents have a difficult relationship, but the minor has not been proven is hampered by it, all the more so since it is now clear that the minor is doing well at school. The Council has not specified that, and if so, from which child signals it can be deduced that the minor suffers from the conflicts between his parents and his mother 's lack . The other concerns of the council , namely the varying availability of the mother and the (over) protective attitude of the father , also appear from the file, but that these circumstances are so serious that they are placed under supervisionnecessary, has not proved to be sufficient or insufficient. Among other things, it has emerged that the school no longer gives any signals regarding the lack of social resilience among the minor since he has been on judo and has followed resilience training. There are also signs that the father is too protective towards the minor , but it has not been shown that this relates to circumstances other than the minor 's contact with the mother . Because of the alcohol problem of the mother and the fact that the minor having been exposed to it several times, this protective attitude of the father is not entirely incomprehensible and this attitude cannot necessarily lead to a serious threat to the development of the minor .

Furthermore, it is not in dispute that the father has always cooperated in providing assistance in the voluntary framework. The father again promised to cooperate at the hearing on appeal . According to the GI , it often takes some effort to align with the father , but in the end they both strive for the same goal, according to the family manager. The council also acknowledges that the father cooperates, albeit not according to the council, in an optimal or timely manner. Despite the latter, under the aforementioned circumstances, it cannot be said that the necessary care is provided by the fatheris not or insufficiently accepted, or at least it has not become sufficiently clear on which point the father does not cooperate sufficiently.

The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that the grounds for taking a custodial order are not present and that there were no such grounds at the time of the adoption of the contested decision. The decision whose appeal will therefore be annulled and the preliminary request of the council will still be rejected.


5.7
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

annul the decision whose appeal and, once again:

rejects the introductory request by the council to place the minor under supervision ;

requests the Registrar to send a copy of this decision to the Registrar of the Amsterdam Court, Civil Law Division, Family and Juvenile Law Team for the attention of the public register pursuant to the provisions of the Authority Registers Decree .

This decision was made by JMC Louwinger-Rijk, TAM Tijhuis, and SFM Wortmann, in the presence of FJE van Geijn, as clerk, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 22 January 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 176