Content indication
The grounds for termination of joint authority have been met. Very escalated conflict separation .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-03-19
Publication date
2019-03-26
Case number
200.247.115 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2018: 7089
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.247.115 / 01

Case number court: C / 13/625708 / FA RK17-1733

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 19 March 2019 on

the father ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: L. Scheffer in Amsterdam,

and

the mother ,

living at a secret address,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: ML Hamburger in Amstelveen.

In its advisory and / or testing task, the following is known in the procedure:

Amsterdam Child Protection Board

hereinafter referred to as: the council .

The following is designated as an interested party:

- The minor son.

The following are designated as informers:

- Salvation Army Youth Protection & Probation established in Alkmaar (hereinafter: the GI).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the District Court) of 23 May 2018 and pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1.
The father appealed on 22 August 2018 against the decision of 23 May 2018.


2.2.
The mother filed a statement of defense on November 21, 2018.


2.3.
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- the journal report from the mother with the productions 1 to 3, received on January 15, 2019;

- the journal report on the part of the mother with production 4 received on January 15, 2019;

- the journal report from the father of 14 January 2019 with the productions 19 to 36, received on 15 January 2019;

- the journal report from the father of January 15, 2019 with the productions 37 up to and including 39 received on January 16, 2019;

- the journal report from the father of January 17, 2019, received on the same date, with production 40;

- the fax message from the woman of 17 January 2019, with production 5 and 6 as an appendix and with which she objects to the production of production 40 by the man;

- a letter from the woman of 18 January 2019, received on the same date;

- a letter from the father of January 21, 2019, received on the same date, in response to the wife's letter of January 18, 2019.


2.4.
The oral hearing took place on 24 January 2019. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by W. Fadel, interpreter in the Arabic language and his lawyer, L. Scheffer;

- ML Hamburger for the mother ;

- the council , represented by Mrs. A. van der Hoorn;

- the GI, represented by the youth protector .

Both lawyers have submitted pleading notes.


3 The facts

3.1.
Parties were married in Syria in 2014 . From the marriage of the mother and the father , now dissolved by divorce , is born:

- son (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ), in 2015, at the place of birth.

The mother exercises since the contested decision only authority over the minor . Parties have Syrian nationality .


3.2.
By order dated April 5, 2017 the court his interim relief measures, inter alia provides that the minor to the mother entrusted a preliminary distribution of the care and upbringing between the parents is established and the board has requested an investigation to conduct with regard to the care arrangements ; the treatment of the care scheme was then pro forma.


3.3.
By order of the Court of December 6, 2017 are preliminary relief measures and in the context of an interim care arrangement provides that the intercourse between the father and the minor in the presence of the mother twice coached will be the social team of the municipality of Amstelveen that the social team, the parents will enroll at Spirit, which Spirit the guidance of the association will take over and will start mediation after divorce and that the handling, if possible unaccompanied, will be guided by Spirit. Treatment of the provisional care scheme has been continued.


3.4.
By order of 7 March 2018, the court pronounced the divorce , which was registered on 20 June 2018 in the appropriate register. This decision is also an interim care arrangements determined the father and the minor weekly supervised contact will have with each other and other ancillary provisions held to a specified session.


3.5.
In summary judgment of the preliminary relief judge in the court of 20 September 2018 - insofar as relevant here - the claim for compliance with the access arrangements laid down in the contested decision was rejected and the mother was imposed an obligation to provide information under forfeit of a penalty .


3.6.
By order of 10 October 2018 of the juvenile court judge in court, the minor was placed under the supervision of the GI until 10 October 2019.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1.
In the contested decision, the joint custody of the mother and the father was terminated , insofar as it is currently relevant, and from now on the mother was solely charged with exercising custody of the minor . It is also stipulated that the minor will have his principal place of residence with the mother . The court has determined that in the context of an access arrangement the interaction between the father and the minor must be started as quickly as possible and must be guidedby Spirit and on a regular basis. It will be the mother of the minor , unless they found someone who can take this from her that none of her family and that the minor is known to the handling time placing and retrieving. Furthermore, the court ruled that the interaction , if possible unaccompanied, will take place and be expanded on the guidance of Spirit. The handling of the access arrangement is pro forma.


4.2.
The father asks, with annulment of the contested decision (to that extent), the parents jointly entrust the custody of the minor and the main residence of the minor by the father to decide.


4.3.
The mother requests the father to be declared inadmissible in the appeal that he has lodged. In so far as the father is admissible in the appeal, she requests that the contested decision be ratified.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1.
The Court of Appeal took cognizance of the production 40 submitted by the father and the productions 5 and 6 submitted by the mother and added these to the file. These productions were in part already known to the parents earlier and moreover it was easy to take note of these productions prior to the hearing on appeal and they were easy to understand. The father nor the mother are thus prejudiced their interests process.

Admissibility


5.2.
The mother has hearing on appeal argued that the father under Article 21 of the Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) inadmissible must be dismissed in its appeal. The father failed to challenge the decisions of the court of 5 April 2017, 9 August 2017, 14 March 2018 and 6 December 2017 with the additional reports from the Council of 25 October 2017 and 20 March 2018.


5.3.
The father submitted at the hearing on appeal that all relevant documents were brought into the proceedings.


5.4.
Pursuant to the provisions of article 21 DCCP, the parties are obliged to state the facts relevant to the decision in full and truthfully. If this obligation is not complied with, the court can draw the conclusion from that which it considers to be appropriate. It has not been substantiated why the father would have misrepresented the facts by not submitting the above documents, and this has not been proven otherwise. In addition, that is the mother, if it considered the documents referred to to be relevant to the decision to be taken, could have brought those documents into question. The Court of Appeal considers itself sufficiently informed to be able to make a decision in the present dispute and sees no reason to stay the proceedings so that these documents can still be submitted. The father is admissible in his appeal.

Authority


5.5.
Pursuant to Article 1: 251 of the Civil Code (BW), the parents who have joint custody continue to exercise this authority jointly after dissolution of the marriage .

Pursuant to Section 1: 251a of the Dutch Civil Code, after dissolution of the marriage, at the request of the parents or one of them , the court may determine that custody of a child belongs to one parent if:

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child might become trapped or lost between the parents and that it is not expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, or

b. a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child .


5.6.
According to the father , the court wrongly terminated the joint custody of the minor and henceforth entrusted the mother solely with custody . The father acknowledges that he has threatened in the past to want to take the minor abroad, but this was and is not the intention. He said so in his anger. In addition, in the case of joint custody, the father also needs the permission of the other parent to travel abroad. Regarding the threat to the address of themother and her family, the father argued that the court did not correctly understand the recordings of conversations at issue because they were incorrectly translated. The mother also provoked certain statements and then secretly recorded these conversations. The conversations have also been tampered with and parts have been cut out. The father disputes having threatened the mother or her family . The mother's family threatens the father and they abuse the minor . In Syria, the father would be after a divorce are in charge of custody and remain responsible for the family. The current situation is therefore indigestible for the father . Especially now it is not the mother but her family who makes decisions about the minor . He fears that he will be completely sidelined if the joint authority is terminated while the communication problems can be solved. After all, he is willing to mediate. As part of the supervision order should the association be resumed. At the moment it is too early to judge that the continuation of joint authority poses an unacceptable risk to theminor means that he will be trapped and lost between his parents and that the first step is to await the progress of the assistance under supervision . In the meantime, the council must carry out an investigation and subsequently advise on the authority .


5.7.
On behalf of the mother it has been argued that the basis for joint authority is missing. The parents cannot communicate with each other and there is indeed a situation where the minor risks being trapped and lost if the parents exercise joint custody . There has been a fierce struggle between the parents for many years now , with the father expressing death threats to the mother and her family. The father also threatened the minor to take abroad. In the meantime, the mother has gone into hiding with the minor for fear of the father and there is currently no contact between the father and the minor . The mother therefore does not see how she and the father can take joint decisions in the interests of the minor . In the meantime, the entire situation is having an impact on the minor and he is currently being treated by a psychologist .


5.8.
The Council advises to ratify the contested decision. The mother has been the primary educator of the minor from the outset and the minor has been staying with her since the divorce . It fits in well with the needs of the minor . The council sees the light of the current situation, not how the father the custody can fill with the mother . The parents communicate not with each other and are engaged in a massive battle that ever fierceris going to be. They are unable to make decisions together about the minor . The minor is through this struggle of the parents already terminal and been lost and it is important that parents stop. and learn to act in the best interests of the minor .


5.9.
The GI stated at the hearing on appeal that there are trauma-related problems in the minor and that a diagnostic investigation has therefore been started. The GI is still awaiting the outcome. In the meantime De GI has started a procedure to suspend the established access arrangement .


5.10.
From the documents in the proceedings and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal, the following has become apparent, among other things. the minor has been staying with the mother since the divorce proceedings at a secret reception address. after the divorce, the minor had occasional contact with the father under the supervision of the childcare . In the meantime, there has been no contact between the minor and the father for months . There has been a fierce struggle between the parents for some time , in which they have each other back and forthaccusing each other of serious threats and disqualifying each other . They distrust each other and are unable to arrive at a constructive form of communication in the interests of the minor . Since the contested decision, the situation has only deteriorated. The mother is still in hiding with the minor , the last meeting before the access arrangement has escalated and the National Expertise Center for Honor Related Violence (LEC) has now become involved. Also the custody that has now been pronouncedhas not yet been able to change the situation. It is apparent from the GI's petition of 31 December 2018 that the GI received advice on 20 December 2018 from both the LEC and from the anonymous reception where the mother and minor are staying, in order to suspend access to the relationship. or to stop. From the anonymous reception it is indicated that the minor is currently being seen by an orthopedagogue because of his PTSD complaints, where a diagnostic process has been started. The LEC has indicated that there is a strong increase in the continuation of the access arrangementsafety risk for the mother , the minor and the accompanying authorities. In addition, the GI does not consider it to be in the best interests of the minor to start contact with the father because of the high vulnerability of the minor , his young age and trauma-related child signals . In view of the advice of the LEC and the anonymous reception, the GI has submitted a request to the Northern Netherlands court for suspension of the established access arrangements .


5.11.
The mother has been his main caretaker since the minor was born . It has neither been argued nor proved that it is inadequate in its care and upbringing. Like the court, the court concludes that parents are currently unable to exercise proper joint custody . After all, joint custody requires that they can take decisions of any importance about the minor in joint consultation. For some time the parents have not been able to discuss the care and upbringing of the minor together . The struggle between the parentsis very fierce and appears to have increased considerably since the contested decision. Declarations of threats have been made back and forth . Even with a supervision order and specialist assistance deployed for the minor , it has not been possible to break the impasse. It has also not been possible to start an appropriate counseling process to normalize the complex relationships between the parents . Perhaps the cultural background of the parents plays a role here, the possibly not always constructive support that family and network provide to parentsand traumatic experiences of parents in the war in Syria. In view of the fierce struggle, the divergent positions of the parents , the accusations made to and fro as well as the specific demands placed on care because of the complex problems, the court does not expect that the situation will improve within the foreseeable future. It is clear to the court that both parents have a share in the situation that has arisen and that the minor is the victim of this. The Court therefore considers it important that the parents all cooperation grant the offered them assistance . In view of the presence of the Council at the hearing on appeal, the information available in the file, to which a report of the Council of 28 May 2018 belongs, the Court considers itself sufficiently informed and sees no added value of a new council investigation as by the father requested.


5.12.
In view of the above, the Court of Appeal concludes with the court that the legal grounds for termination of the joint custody set out above under 5.4 have been met and that custody has been granted to the mother because the minor is growing up with her. The Court of Appeal will then ratify the decision that is appealed on this point.

Main residence


5.13.
The principal residence of a child is by law with the authoritative parent . In view of what has been considered and concluded under 5.11 and 5.12, the father 's request to determine the principal place of residence with him no longer requires further discussion. The decision mentioned under 3.1 of the contested decision does not have independent meaning.


5.14.
The above leads to the following decisions.


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court.

rejects more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by MFGH Beckers, GW Brands-Bottema and SFM Wortmann, in the presence of I. Rijs, LL.M., as clerk of the court and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 19 March 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 982