Content indication
Shock damage. After an expert report, it is established that the person involved (now 13 years old), who is also affected with an autism spectrum disorder, has contracted a post- traumatic stress disorder . This is the final judgment following the case that was previously published under ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2018: 8381 ( appointment of experts). Award of shock damage for the person with autism spectrum disorder and with the diagnosis of ptsd. The perpetrator has to take the victim as he finds it.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-05
Publication date
2019-11-29
Case number
200,207,735
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Formal relationship
Interim judgment: ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2018: 8381
Interim judgment: ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2018: 1440
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBGEL: 2016: 5852
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
PS-Updates.nl 2019-1333
NJF 2020/10
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department, trade

court case number 200.207.735

(Case number for the Gelderland District Court, Arnhem, 294607)

judgment of 5 November 2019

in the case of

appellant ,

living at home,

appellant,

at first instance: defendant,

hereinafter: appellant,

lawyer: JW de Bruin, LL.M.

against:

timed,

in its capacity as legal representative of

T.,

living at home,

timed,

at first instance: plaintiff,

hereinafter: the respondent,

lawyer: mr. CW Langereis.


1 The further course of the appeal proceedings

1.1
In the last interim judgment of 18 September 2018 ( ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2018: 8381 ), the court appointed two experts (psychiatrists), JLM Schoutrop and Dr. F. van Broekhoven, for an investigation into the clergyman condition of T. (born date of birth 2006) in connection with the determination of the amount of the intangible compensation (shock damage).


1.2
The expert's report of 27 May 2019 was filed at the registry on 28 May 2019. Both parties were then able to respond: appellant by deed dated 16 July 2019 and respondent by deed of reply of 27 August 2019.


1.3
The court then decided on the judgment.


2 The further reasoning for the appeal decision

2.1
T. has undergone a psychiatric examination by expert Van Broekhoven, who has engaged a GZ psychologist-registered psychologist for auxiliary examination, whose report forms part of the expert report of both psychiatrists .

The psychiatric examination shows the following:

“A well-groomed boy is seen with an appearance in accordance with the calendar age. There are no dysmorphia abnormalities in the face; add court seen. He is reluctant, resisting in contact. Has an angry expression on his face. Also acknowledged, when asked, not to feel like talking again. Many answers are limited to I don't know. When I keep asking questions, tears and a curt will soon come, I am told that I do not know. With more closed questions, he can answer better, but is then mainly limited to sentences of one or two words. T. makes little eye contact. He is calm, there is little psychomotorism . Seems introverted and appears rigid. Not a single smile. (...) Little emotionto see. Angry mood, flat affect. When there are interest questions about his life, there is no urge to tell anything. There is no reciprocity, there is no contact growth . Does not give any social opening. Limited fantasy.

No details regarding the development of conscience. Furthermore, clear awareness, well oriented in time, place and person. Attract and retain attention. No

to see psychotic phenomena. As average, maybe low average, estimated intelligence. T. is sad, anxious, angry , has limited emotion regulation , is withdrawn, is limited in social interaction and communication and interest and interests.

Summary additional psychological examination

The person concerned has problems in social communication and social interaction in various situations. In addition, there are limited, repetitive behavioral patterns, interests or activities. These problems can be explained by the effort to see the big picture, the limitations in imaginative power and inadequate Theory of Mind. Because of this inability, the person involved experiences incomprehension and problems in contact with others, as a result of which he seems to develop tension and mood complaints .

In addition, the arousal physical / mental excitement, freely translated; add court raised by the person concerned because he must always talk about the murder of mother . The person concerned does not trust adults and does not experience that others can help him with sadness, anger and feelings of guilt. At the same time he is ambivalent and still wants to trust someone so that he can talk about his emotions , but in his own way.

The psychologist suggests following its investigation the following DSM-5 classification:

299.00 Autism spectrum disorder, requires support

309.81 Post Traumatic Stress Disorder

309.89 Persistent complex mourning disorder

V61.20 Parent-child relationship problem

This DSM-5 classification largely corresponds to the classification that I have drawn up on the basis of my own research . (…)

Diagnostic considerations

It is a 13-year-old boy who found his mother dead on the floor next to her bed at the age of seven in a pool of blood. She turned out to be murdered by her former partner with whom T. had a pleasant relationship until then. This has been a traumatic experience for T. with stress complaints , avoidance, increased irritability and increased vigilance as a result (DSM-5 classification: Post-traumatic stress disorder ). Treatments for this trauma have had only a limited effect. Although parents say they have indicated several times that they saw signs of autism with T., according to them they were not addressed at the time by practitioners. Sufficient is indeed found in the current investigationclues forward to speak of an autism spectrum disorder (DSM-5 classification: Autism spectrum disorder). This means that T. at the time of the crime and afterwards had limited opportunities to deal with this traumatic event. And it can now be explained why previous treatments were like this

had little result. Namely because no account has been taken of the existence of autism spectrum disorder. This autism spectrum disorder was by definition already present before the trauma occurred because it is a developmental disorder and developmental disorders are congenital. The emergence of the PTSD on top of the already present autism spectrum disorder has complicated mourning .

Parents experience problems in dealing with T. (DSM-5 classification: Parent-child relationship problem).

From a developmental perspective, traumatic experiences in childhood have an influence on the neurobiological development of the brain. The fact that there was no adult in the neighborhood at the time of the event contributes negatively to this.

Processing shocking events in children , just like mourning after the loss of an important person, takes place in phases. Over time, new estimates of the stressful events take place, whereby a change in the mental representation of the event can occur in the child 's head . This did not take place sufficiently with T., possibly due to autism and distrustto adults. T. cannot imagine that an adult who was so kind to him could have done something so terrible with his mommy (literal words from T.). T. is less or not able to tell about his post-traumatic complaints and he has difficulty linking these complaints to the event.

The grief at T. is characterized by a feeling of detachment and a longing for his mother , at the same time not understanding that she is really no longer there. Being able to reason cognitively, but not feeling emotionally . According to T., others do not understand what he really thinks and feels.

DSM-5 classification

309.81 Post-traumatic stress disorder

299.00 Autism spectrum disorder

V61.20 Parent-child relationship problem. "


2.2
In answer to question Ia (see the judgment of 18 September 2018), the experts write:

“The nature of the injury: sadness for the deceased mother and stress complaints after the

disruptive event. These stress complaints still consist of:

Fear (if I love people, they can suddenly be taken away from me;

adults cannot be trusted, they do what they feel like doing and so they do too

with me what they feel like), sleeping problems (is now going well again), withdrawn

behavior, anger and feelings of guilt (Adults cannot be trusted. I trusted

The appellant and he turned out not to be nice. It is my fault if I had been there before

Mommy had lived), and eating problems (is now going well again).

The severity of the injury: there is stagnation in development . Not good

school development, not social growth. In addition, a gloomy, resigned mood.

The course of the complaints : shortly after the crime no longer eating, poor sleep. This is

largely normalized. New is the anger and flattened of.

The applied treatments and the result of these treatments : treatments at

UMC Utrecht, Practice Side by Side and GGNet. Treatments consisted of EMDR, individual behavioral therapy treatment, play therapy, parent guidance and contact with school, PMT, Rock and Water training . Intensive Psychiatric Family Counseling. The result of these treatments is very limited. T. stays flat and pulled back, can't talk about his feelings, can show tantrums.

What other complaints and limitations in your field are reported upon request: no

being able to make good contact with peers, not being able to make friends

maintained cannot express itself.

Restrictions in relation to the activities of general daily life (ADL).

tone-forming work and the pursuit of hobbies, activities in a recreational sphere and

self-employment : limited in social contacts. "


2.3
In response to the "open question" whether there are any relevant comments from the experts, they write:

“Answer: The complaints do not stem from a normal grieving process, but from PTSD and an autism spectrum disorder. The mourning process has this combination of disorders

complicated. (...)

Answer: the weight of the restrictions is considerable. T. shows little development ,

has no friends, no fun, few interests, school is not going well. This one

Restrictions should be considered significant because they lead to stagnation

in its development . (...)

Answer: the fact that T. was alone when he found his mother must be seen as

an additional risk factor for the occurrence and persistence of traumatic complaints. And because T. had an Autism Spectrum Disorder at the time of finding his mother ,

the processing of this traumatic experience is hampered . The young age has none

had a beneficial effect. (...)

Answer: the prognosis is due to the presence of an Autism Spectrum Disorder

moderately positive. A new trauma treatment that takes into account the existence of

an autism spectrum disorder can have a positive effect. (...)

The post-traumatic stress disorder has caused complaints. That these complaints with T.

more serious than if he would not have had Autism Spectrum Disorder lies ahead of the

hand. It is impossible to say to what extent these complaints are worse as a result. "


2.4
In the last interim judgment under 2.1, the Court of Appeal has already outlined the framework within which it must be assessed whether T. can claim immaterial damage / shock damage and that the Taxibus judgment of the Supreme Courtcan be applied here by analogy. It is undisputed that T., as a seven-year-old boy, was directly confronted with the circumstances under which he found his mother dead and that this confrontation had caused a severe shock to him, is evident from the expert's report describing that this is a traumatic experience for him with stress complaints , avoidance, increased irritability and increased vigilance as a result. The experts (including the psychologist ) conclude from their studies that T. is a post- traumatic stress disorder , which is a psychiatryrecognized clinical picture. The fact that T. has a congenital developmental disorder, namely an autism spectrum disorder, has made him extra vulnerable to persistent, complicated grieving processing as the experts describe. The general principle of the right to compensation in personal injury cases is that the perpetrator, which is the appellant here, has to take the victim as he finds in his unlawful act and this principle also applies to compensation for shock damage. The experts further conclude that the post- traumatic stress disorder has caused T. complaints; that these complaints are more seriousthan if he would not have had autism spectrum disorder "is obvious" according to the experts. The experts cannot indicate to what extent these complaints have become worse as a result, but in the opinion of the court that is neither necessary nor actually impossible: after all, this is not an exact science. To what extent a further trauma treatment with the knowledge of today, namely that T. is also affected with an autism spectrum disorder, could contribute to reducing his current complaints is not relevant; it is not unlikely that T. was marked for life by this very unusual, traumatic experience.


2.5
The two complaints of the appellant against the judgment of the court of 12 October 2016to fail. The Court of Appeal therefore subscribes to the amount of € 40,000 in immaterial compensation awarded by the court.


2.6
The Court of Appeal will order the appellant, as the party to be completely unsuccessful, to pay the costs of the proceedings on the part of the respondent and the costs of the expert's report (an amount of € 6,110.50) because the appellant is based on an addition litigate.


3 The decision
The court of appeal:

endorses the judgment of the Gelderland District Court, Arnhem, court of 12 October 2016 insofar as it was delivered between the appellant and the respondent in his capacity as legal representative of T.;

orders the appellant to pay the costs of the appeal, up to this judgment on the part of the respondent set at € 313 for disbursements and at € 3,918 for lawyer's salary in accordance with the liquidation rate (IV, 2 points) to be paid within fourteen days after the date of this judgment, and - in the event that payment does not take place within the aforementioned period - to be increased by the statutory interest calculated from the said payment period;

orders the appellant to pay the costs of the expert report and orders the appellant to pay the clerk of the court - after receiving a bill with payment instructions from the National Service Center for the Judiciary - the amount of € 6,110.50 including VAT for the provisionally chargeable part of those costs charged to the government's cash.

This judgment was given by mrs. RA Dozy, MB Beekhoven van den Boezem and SCP Giesen and were pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 5 November 2019.

1 Supreme Court February 22, 2002, ECLI: NL: HR: 2002: AD5356 .
2 ECLI: NL: RBGEL: 2016: 5852
Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 9478