Content indication
Article 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code. Family life, no access arrangement determined. It appears from the parental survey that mother , legal and biological father have too little capacity for that. Parents must seek help themselves.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-03-19
Publication date
2019-03-27
Case number
200,182,546 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2015: 2249
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2015: 8040
Interim judgment: ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2016: 1996
Interim judgment: ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2017: 9
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200,182,546 / 01

Case number court: C / 14/131821 / FA RK 11-840

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 19 March 2019 on

the biological father ,

residing at domicile a,

applicant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the biological father ,

lawyer: E. Balikci-Yildiz in The Hague,

and

the mother ,

residing at b,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. MJR Roethof in Arnhem.

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board

location: Haarlem

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The appeal proceedings

1.1.
In this case, the court of appeal issued decisions on 24 May 2016 and 3 January 2017 respectively, to which the court refers.

An expert investigation in the form of a so-called parental investigation has been ordered with the latter decision .


1.2.
On 18 September 2017, the registry of this court received the final report of 15 September 2017 from the expert, Mrs. GMM de Boer (hereafter: the expert).


1.3.
The case was continued on January 24, 2019. Appeared are:

- the biological father , assisted by F. Yildiz, lawyer in The Hague,

- the mother , together with the legal father , Mr X, assisted by AE Bakker, lawyer in Arnhem

- the council , represented by Mrs. DM van Dijk.

As an informant, the outpatient supervisor of the biological father , Mr Michiel Kloeg, who worked at Esdégé-Reigersdaal, appeared.

2. Further assessment of the appeal


2.1.
In the decision of 3 January 2017, the Court of Appeal found that family life existed between the biological father and the children and that there was a close personal relationship between them. The Court of Appeal has therefore ruled that the biological father can be received in his request for the adoption of an access arrangement . The court has ordered a parental investigation in order to get an answer to the question whether the biological father can play a role in the children 's lives , and if so which and in which period and with which guidance or assistance. To this end, the Court of Appeal has formulated further questions as referred to in 4.15. of the decision of 3 January 2017.


2.2.
The parental survey shows - briefly summarized - the following. The expert considers that there are obstacles to reaching agreements in the short term about contact recovery between the children and the biological father . Both children experience confusion and denial about the biological father 's existence . The emotions and thoughts about him are negative. For contact with the biological father , the children therefore need full confidence and positive support from the mother and the legal fatherand from the biological father they need emotional stability and empathy. However, these conditions are not present with the mother , the legal father and the biological father . The mother suffers from negative feelings in the memory of the biological father and does not have the insight that the negative emotions concerning the biological father influence the children . Also with the legal father there is insufficient support to support the children in contact with the biological father. In addition, the expert has not been able to make a proper estimate of the current and expected carrying capacity of the biological father , as well as what support he might need in the event of contact recovery . The biological father blocked all personal information in the final phase of the investigation for fear and self-protection. Although this is conceivable and understandable, according to the expert, this indicates a limited capacity to give priority to the interests of the children in a well-considered research outcome .

The expert considers it desirable that both biological parents receive psycho-education about the influence of trauma on attachment relationships. In addition, the expert considers it desirable that the parents accept guidance in forming a neutral positive story for the benefit of status information and that the mother receives and will accept guidance in providing comprehensive information to the biological father about the development and well-being of the children on a very frequent basis. In the latter case, the expert sees a role for the legal father to support the mother in this.


2.3.
The biological father argued in court on January 24, 2019 that the expert in the research , despite evidence of Mr. Kloeg, did not take sufficient account of its limitations and therefore drew incorrect conclusions. The documents that the biological father did not want to hand over concerned his family and are not relevant to the mother . He did provide information regarding his limitations and so it is not that the biological father did not want to cooperate in the investigation . The biological father would just like dealing with childrenand agrees that this interaction will be guided . He considers contact with him precisely in the interest of the children , so that the image they have of him can be adjusted. However, the mother does not cooperate in the realization of the contact and has not cooperated in the status information of the children either . The negative image that the mother of the biological father has is transmitted to the children , so that they have a distorted image of him. In addition, the mother and the legal father are not prepared information about theto provide children . The biological father considers it positive that the mother now wants to participate in status information and has the hope that an access arrangement can be started with the children afterwards .


2.4.
The mother argued at the hearing on 24 January 2019 that she agreed with the advice of the expert: the children , the mother and the biological father are not yet able to cope . The mother regularly tries to raise the subject of "the other father", but the children are not ready, according to the mother , and avoid the subject. The mother has participated in all examinations and she is willing to talk to the doctor or a psychologistto properly prepare status information. More than this is currently not possible according to the mother , which is also apparent from the expert's report.


2.5.
The council believes that contact between the biological father and the children is currently not possible. Intercourse goes beyond the capacity of the children and also the capacity of the biological father and mother . The council recommends better status information, because the children have a fearful image of the biological father and the subject of "the other father" is becoming increasingly charged. The Council therefore recommends including the obligation to provide status information in the decision. A therapist would be themother , legal father and biological father can help to form a joint story.


2.6.
The court considers the following

Under 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), the court denied the right of association only if: a. Dealing seriously could prejudice the mental or physical development of

the child , or b. the parent or person who is in a close personal relationship to the child must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or c. the child who is twelve years or older , when he interrogates serious objections to interaction

with his parent or the person with whom he has a close personal relationship, or d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


2.7.
The Court of Appeal stated first of all that, insofar as the biological father intended to state that the expert acted negligently, he did not substantiate this claim sufficiently. The Court of Appeal therefore sees no reason to put aside the expert's report and will include the findings of the expert in his opinion. In view of the findings of the expert, the Court of Appeal considers the adoption of an access arrangement between the biological father and the children to be in conflict with the children's important interests . In addition, the following was considered. The biological father 's last contact with the childrendates from date 2010, on the first birthday of child B; child A was then almost three years old. In June 2014 the children were informed by the then family guardian about the existence of the biological father , because the mother and the legal father felt unable to keep their own negative feelings and thoughts away from the children and to provide information in a neutral way about the biological father . The children were then 7.4 and 5.4 years old. The children responded with fear and resistance. The negative image that the childrennow also having the biological father is mainly formed by the mother and the legal father and the children seem to have no room for other, more positive images. In this situation, the court considers it plausible that forced contact between the biological father and the children will have a negative impact on the development of the children . The status information must first be continued in a way that is appropriate, positive or at least neutral for the development of the children . For the childrenIt is important that this will be done by someone who is safe for them. From the biological father , the children need emotional stability and empathy in their position. However, the biological father has not provided the expert with personal and current information, so that there is no insight into his psychological stability and functioning. The documents do show that since 2009 he has been suffering from physical and psychological injury (PTSD) as a result of an abuse , that he has limited learning ability and PDD-NOS, but the biological father wanted to know what personal limitations this caused.not provide insight with information from third parties. In addition, it is clear that the biological father 's feelings and thoughts about the mother are negative and stressful , which means that he cannot yet be considered to be able to form and tell a clear and neutral story while the children need the biological father accepts and processes the past, and communicates somewhat relaxed .

The mother has not yet sufficiently processed her own negative feelings and memories and can therefore not be open to feelings and needs of the children concerning the biological father if they deviate from her own feelings and needs . The mother cannot (yet) provide a clear and neutral picture of the contact with the biological father and does not appear to be motivated. She has insufficient insight into the interests of the children and cannot provide the required emotional safety , not even with the legal father. As long as that plays out, the children will be confused, which is harmful to them.

The court agrees with the expert's conclusion that it is desirable that the biological father and mother receive psycho-education about the influence of trauma on attachment relationships and the risk of intergenerational transmission thereof and also accept guidance in forming a neutral positive story for the benefit of the status information, as well as that the mother receives and accepts guidance in the extensive information of the biological father about the development and well-being of the children on a frequent basis. The mother and the legal fatherat the hearing on January 24, 2019, declared their willingness to turn to a professional counselor (via, for example, the general practitioner, internal school counselor or the psychiatric help the mother receives in connection with her MS). Perhaps overfeeding, the court advises the biological father to heed the advice of the expert and to discuss this with his supervisors .

In view of all the above, no access arrangement will be established between the biological father and the children and the contested decision of the court will be ratified.


2.8.
Given the nature of these proceedings, the Court of Appeal sees no reason to order the biological father to pay the costs of the proceedings, as requested by the mother , and will compensate these costs between the parties, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.


2.9.
This leads to the following decision.


3 The decision
The court:

ratifies the contested decision in so far as it is subject to the judgment of the court of appeal;

determines that each party bears its own costs of proceedings;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by MFGH Beckers, GW Brands-Bottema, and SFM Wortmann, in the presence of EL Baauw, as clerk of the court, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 19 March 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 983