Content indication
Attempt to assault a severe ex-girlfriend by squeezing her throat and giving a head butt. Vw intent on serious physical injury, partly because the suspect knew that his ex of serious brain injury was recovering. TS + partly vw GS with contact & location ban
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-07-04
Publication date
2019-07-29
Case number
23-003548-17
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
criminal law department

public prosecutor's office number: 23-003548-17

Date of judgment: July 4, 2019

Contradiction

Brief judgment of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal pointed to the appeal, brought against the judgment of the police judge in the Noord-Holland District Court of 6 October 2017 in the criminal case under public prosecutor's office number 15-135947-17 against

suspect ,

born in place of birth on birth day 1978,

address: address 1,

address as stated by the suspect at the hearing: address 2.

Investigation of the case
This judgment was delivered on the basis of the investigation at the hearing on appeal of 20 June 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422, second paragraph, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the basis of the investigation at the hearing at first instance.

An appeal has been lodged on behalf of the suspect against the aforementioned judgment.

The Court of Appeal has taken cognizance of the advocate-general's claim and of what has been put forward by the suspect and counsel .

Indictment
The accused has been charged with:

he on or around 5 June 2017 in Haarlem, in execution of the crime intended by the suspect to intentionally inflict serious physical injury on the victim by that victim:

- squeezing / pushing her throat and / or

- to grab her neck with his arm (which closed her throat) and / or

- give one or more head (s) against her face, at least against her head and / or

- punching her head once or more and / or

- prick / push with his fingers in her eyes,

while the execution of that proposed crime has not been completed;

in the alternative, if the foregoing should not or could not lead to a conviction:

he on or around 5 June 2017 in Haarlem, the victim has been abused by that victim:

- squeezing / pushing her throat and / or

- to grab her neck with his arm (which closed her throat) and / or

- give one or more head (s) against her face, at least against her head and / or

- punching her head once or more and / or

- pricking / pushing with his fingers in her eyes.

Insofar as language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, the court will read them in an improved way. The suspect is therefore not harmed in the defense.

Verdict whose appeal
The judgment whose appeal will be set aside, because the court of appeal comes to a different statement of evidence and decisions other than the police court.

Evidence
The complainant stated that the suspect was coming from the pub to her house, under the influence of alcohol. She did not want to let him in, and only opened the door slightly with her foot behind the door. The suspect, however, pushed the door open and a scuffle arose, grabbing her throat and giving her a head butt. Then both moved outside, where the suspect punched the complainant several times with a clenched fist in his face. When the suspect entered, the complainant's daughter was on the toilet.

The daughter stated that she came out of the toilet when she heard the noise of scuffle. She saw the suspect pinch her mother 's throat and tried to intervene. She also declares that the suspect gave head-punches to the principal's head and punched her against the head when she had gone outside with the suspect. The suspect has stated that he has the homeof the complainant entered and was scratched in her face, causing visible scratches. He then pushed the complainant away. It was known to the suspect that a few months before this incident the complainant was struck by a cerebral infarction, of which she was still rehabilitating. Speaking was sometimes difficult for her, as was walking, and she had no good control over one of her arms, the suspect knew.

The description of the complainant's injury, and the accompanying photos, shows that the complainant had a visible discoloration in her neck, a black eye, and a bump on her forehead.

From what has been described above, the Court of Appeal deduces that the suspect was aware of the special vulnerability of the complainant. The court considers the defendant's reading of his role in the course of events unacceptable, given the statements made by the complainant and her daughter, in combination with the injured person's injuries. By using so much violence, particularly aimed at the head of someone who is in a rehabilitation process of a serious brain disorder, the suspect has consciously exposed himself to the considerable chance that this would cause (again) injury, which can be regarded as serious . The Court therefore considers that a conditional intention to inflict serious bodily injury has been proven.

Proof of declaration
The Court of Appeal considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the accused primarily committed charges, on the understanding that:

he on 5 June 2017 in Haarlem, in execution of the crime intended by the accused to cause serious physical injury to the victim by that victim:

- squeezing her throat and

- to grab her neck with his arm and

- give one or more head (s) against her head and

- punching her head,

while the execution of that proposed crime has not been completed.

What has been charged more or differently has not been proven. The suspect must be acquitted of this.

The primarily proven statement is based on the facts and circumstances that are contained in the means of proof, such as these will be included in the supplement to this judgment after the possible appeal in cassation.

Punishability of the proven
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the punishability of the primarily proven statement, so that it is punishable.

The primary proven results provide:

attempted serious abuse .

Punishability of the suspect
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the suspect's punishability with regard to the primarily proven statement, so that the suspect is punishable.

Imposition of penalties
The police judge in the Noord-Holland court sentenced the suspect for the primarily proven statement to a prison sentence of 10 months, of which 5 months suspended, with a probationary period of 2 years and with the following special conditions: an obligation to report to the probation service Netherlands, address 3, at times to be determined by the probation service, an obligation to participate in a behavioral intervention consisting of aggression regulation training where the suspect must adhere to the instructions given by or on behalf of the aforementioned institution, a contact banwith the complainant Ms. victim and location prohibition regarding Zwaluwstraat Haarlem, which is given to the Probation Netherlands commission to hold monitoring of compliance with these policies and the supervision of the offender the benefit thereof guidance .

Furthermore, a decision has been made regarding the claim of the injured party, as further detailed in the judgment for which an appeal has been described.

The Advocate General has demanded that the accused for the primary charges against him be sentenced to a prison sentence of 10 months, of which 5 months conditional, with a probationary period of 2 years. In addition, the Advocate General has requested that a measure restricting freedom under Article 38v of the Penal Code will be imposed, meaning that the suspect will not remain in the Zwaluwstraat in Haarlem for a period of 2 years. In addition, the Advocate General has demanded that on the basis of the latter article a contact ban be imposed with the victim of the victim for a period of 2 years. It has been demanded that for every violation 1 week custody is imposed up to a maximum of 6 months.

On appeal, the Court of Appeal determined the penalties to be imposed on the basis of the seriousness of the offense and the circumstances in which this was committed and in view of the person of the suspect. The Court of Appeal in particular took the following into consideration.

In the proven manner, the suspect was guilty of an attempt to seriously abuse his former partner, by, among other things, squeezing her throat and giving a head butt. By acting in this way, the suspect has made an unacceptable violation of the physical integrity of the victim, who was just recovering from a cerebral infarction. In addition, the fact had taken place in her own home ; a place where it should ideally feel safe.

According to an extract from the Judicial Documentation of 3 June 2019 concerning the suspect, he was irrevocably convicted of criminal offenses, including reciprocity.

The Court of Appeal also took into account a probation recommendation from GGZ Fivoor Haarlem of 13 June 2019 concerning the suspect, which shows that the suspect has tried to give a positive turn to his life in the past two years and that he has increased his social stability. GGZ Fivoor Haarlem advises the suspect to impose a suspended sentence without special conditions.

When imposing criminal sentences, the Court of Appeal allowed the accused to take into account that during the investigation at the hearing on appeal an altered picture of the personal circumstances of the accused was put forward, which supports the aforementioned probation advice from Fivoor. The suspect has indicated that his life is back on track: his business is going well, his medication is almost finished and he will soon move into his new home. The court finds that the suspect has given a positive turn to his life. Although the seriousness of the offense in itself justifies a prison sentence as imposed by the court and demanded by the Advocate General, the court does not wish to override this positive turn by imposing such a punishment.

Furthermore, contrary to what was requested by the Advocate General, the Court of Appeal refrains from imposing a freedom-restricting measure involving a ban on contact and location. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, in view of the proceedings at the hearing on appeal and the file, there are insufficient reasons to believe that such a measure is necessary for the protection of society or for the prevention of criminal offenses. There is therefore insufficient ground to impose this measure. The court does, however, see reason to impose the contact and location prohibition as special conditions in the conditional prison sentence.

When deliberating, the Court of Appeal took into account the fact that the limitation of Article 22b, first paragraph, of the Criminal Code applies. After all, the proven criminal offense concerns a crime that, according to the legal description, has been imprisoned for six years or more, and the proven statements and the claim form show that the proven crime is a serious violation of the physical integrity of the victim. has had.

The Court of Appeal officially finds that the reasonable time for trial as referred to in Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) has been violated, now that the time for submitting the documents to the Registry of the court of appeal has been exceeded by more than one month after the appeal was lodged on 9 October 2017. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that this excess is, however, sufficiently compensated because the case is still settled within two years after receipt at the Court, so that there is an energetic appeal on appeal. The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that the mere observation of the exceedance is sufficient.

Taking all things into account and taking into account the provisions of Article 22b of the Criminal Code , the Court of Appeal considers a community service order in combination with a partially conditional prison sentence of a specified duration to be appropriate and offered.

Claim of the injured party victim
In the first instance, the injured party joined the criminal proceedings with a claim for damages of € 6,100 plus statutory interest. The claim is assigned to the judgment for which an appeal has been made up to an amount of € 2,500 with interest. The injured party has partially upheld its claim on appeal, on the understanding that it has reduced the amount claimed at the hearing to an amount of € 6,000 consisting of non-material damage plus statutory interest. On appeal, the Court of Appeal therefore has to rule on the claim for damages up to an amount of € 6,000 for non-material damage plus statutory interest.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be awarded up to the amount claimed of € 6,000 with interest and with the imposition of the compensation measure.

From the investigationat the hearing the court found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the primarily proven act of the accused. The budget for the extent of non-material damage is reserved for the judge, who is not bound by the normal rules regarding the obligation to state and burden of proof. The Court of Appeal will estimate the extent of the non-material damage on the basis of the provisions of Article 6: 106 of the Dutch Civil Code according to standards of fairness at € 1,500. Particular attention was paid to the consequences for the injured party and to the compensation awarded by judges in similar cases. The amount to be allocated will, as claimed, be increased by the statutory interest.

For the rest, the investigation at the hearing did not sufficiently show that the injured party suffered direct damage. To that extent, the suspect is not obliged to pay compensation for that damage, so that the remainder of the claim will be rejected.

The Court of Appeal will impose the compensation measure in the manner described below to promote the compensation of the damage by the suspect.

Applicable legal requirements
The penalties to be imposed are based on Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 22c, 22d, 36f, 45 and 302 of the Criminal Code .

These legal regulations are applied as applicable at the time of the proven.

DECISION
The court:

Destroys the judgment that appeals and does justice again:

Declares, as considered above, proven that the suspect primarily committed the accused.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares the primarily proven punishable, qualifies as aforementioned and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for 120 (one hundred and twenty) days .

Determines that a part of the prison sentence of 119 (one hundred and nineteen) days will not be enforced unless the judge later ordered otherwise because the suspect committed a criminal offense before the end of a probation period of 2 (two) years guilty

or

during the probationary period of 2 (two) years for the purpose of establishing his / her identity, the suspect did not cooperate in taking one or more fingerprints

or

has not offered proof of identity as referred to in Article 1 of the Compulsory Identification Act

or

has not cooperated with the probation supervision referred to in Article 14d, second paragraph, of the Criminal Code , including cooperation with home visits, or has not complied with the special condition (s) below:

Sets as a special condition that the convicted person is forbidden to make contact with the victim during the entire probationary period, as long as the probation service deems this necessary.

Sets as a special condition that the convicted person is forbidden to be within a radius of 300 meters from Zwaluwstraat in Haarlem for the entire probationary period , as long as the probation service deems this necessary.

Orders the probation service to supervise compliance with the aforementioned special condition (s) and to supervise the convicted person for that purpose .

Recommends that the time taken by the accused before the implementation of that decision only in Article 27, paragraph, or Article 27a of the Code of Criminal will be referred to as pre-trial detention was spent in the execution of the sentence of imprisonment reduced , in so far as that time has not already been deducted from another penalty.

Sentences the suspect to community service for 120 (one hundred and twenty) hours , if not properly performed, to be replaced by 60 (sixty) days in custody .

Claim of the injured party victim

Allocates the claim for compensation from the injured party victim in respect of the proven up to the amount of € 1,500.00 (one thousand five hundred euros) in respect of immaterial damage, plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be mentioned below up to the day of satisfaction .

Rejects the claim of the injured party for compensation for the remainder.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the suspect the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim named victim, an amount of € 1,500.00 (one thousand five hundred euros) as compensation for non-material damage , in the absence of to replace payment and redress by 25 (twenty-five) days in custody , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date hereafter to the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of such custody constitutes an obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of do not lift the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 5 June 2017.

This judgment was given by the multiple criminal chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal, which included PFE Geerlings, G. Oldekamp and RD van Heffen, in the presence of

NR Achterberg, Registrar, and was pronounced at the public hearing of this court of justice of

July 4, 2019.

...

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 2316