Content indication
Articles 1: 253c paragraph 1 and 1: 377a of the Dutch Civil Code. Request from the father to be in charge of custody of the children and to establish an access arrangement between him and the children . The children have a taxable history and have been staying with the current foster family for more than four years , where they are experiencing a positive development . Their perspective is therefore in the current foster home and not with the father . The father 's request is rejected because there is good reason to believe that the interests of thechildren are neglected. The request of the father to a visitation fix is also rejected, now this - in view of what the children have experienced in the past and the trauma that they will have contracted - is contrary to the important interests of the children .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-23
Publication date
2019-05-07
Case number
200.243.911 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBAMS: 2018: 9828
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.243.911 / 01

Case number court: C / 13/641099 / FA RK 17-8586 (RW TJ)

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 23 April 2019 on

the father ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the father ,

lawyer: CME Schreinemacher in Amsterdam,

and

the certified institution Youth Protection Region Amsterdam,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following are considered as other stakeholders:

- foster father and foster mother (hereafter referred to as: the foster father or foster mother , together with the foster parents );

- the minor child A (hereafter referred to as: child A);

- the minor child B (hereinafter referred to as: child B).

The following are designated as informers:

- the mother (hereinafter referred to as: the mother ).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

Amsterdam region,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the District Court) of 2 May 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The father appealed on 24 July 2018 against the above-mentioned order of 2 May 2018.


2.2
The GI submitted a statement of defense on 3 October 2018.


2.3
The President has on February 7, 2019 with the minor child A and child B spoke separately in the presence of the Registrar. At the session of February 8, 2019, the chairman presented the content of these discussions in a substantive manner. Parties have had the opportunity to respond.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 8 February 2019. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by CME Schreinemacher;

- on behalf of the GI, the replacement family manager and his supervisor;

- the mother ;

- the foster mother ;

- Mrs. X, supervisor of the father , working at Exodus Netherlands;

- the council , represented by Mrs. S. Benjamin.


3 The facts

3.1
After the marriage of the father and mother (hereafter jointly referred to as: the parents ) was dissolved by divorce , the following were born, insofar as relevant:

- child A, in 2005, at the place of birth;

- child B, in 2008, at the place of birth (hereinafter collectively referred to as: the children ).

The father has recognized the children .


3.2
By order of the juvenile court judge in the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ) of 12 November 2013, the children were placed under the supervision of the GI. By order of the juvenile court of 29 November 2013, the children were placed in a foster home by means of an emergency authorization . These measures have subsequently been extended.


3.3
By order of the juvenile court of November 7, 2016, the authority of the mother over the children is ended and the GI is charged with custody of the children . This order was ratified by order of this court of 22 August 2017.


3.4
The children have been staying in the current foster home since October 2014 .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision refused the father 's requests for him to be entrusted with sole authority over the children and to establish an access arrangement between him and the children .


4.2
The father requests that, with the annulment of the contested decision, he should be entrusted with the sole authority over the children and that he should establish a contact arrangement between him and the children which the court considers appropriate.


4.3
The GI requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
At the discretion of the court of appeal lies with the father's request to entrust him with the sole authority over the children and to establish an access arrangement between him and the children .


5.2
Pursuant to Article 1: 253c paragraph 1 of the Civil Code, the to the authority competent parent of the child who never has the authority jointly with the parent from whom the child is exercised born, the court ask the parents to the joint authority or only to burden him with the authority over the child .

The fourth paragraph of this Article provides that where a guardian the authority exercises, the request for to the authority competent parent only the authority but is rejected taxing, if well-founded fear that the interests of the for granting child would be neglected.

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 1: 377a of the Dutch Civil Code, the parent who is not charged with custody is entitled to have contact with his child . Denial of that right is only possible on the grounds listed exhaustively in paragraph 3 of that article, which have the common feature that dealing with conflicts with weighty interests of the child .


5.3
The father argues that the court wrongly rejected his request to charge him with the sole authority over the children . It has not been shown that the father can not take care of the children . The council has never investigated the parenting capacities of the father . It has also not been investigated whether he could be charged with custody of the children . Because the aforementioned studies have not been done, the perspective of the children is not yet fully established. Stay of children in afoster family is not the best option for the children , now that there is a better alternative, namely staying with the father . The father has already got his life in order, so that he is able to offer the children a safe, loving and predictable educational environment. Also , if the father were to be entrusted with the authority over them, the children would again come into contact with the mother and with their brothers and sisters. The children will benefit from this. By burdening him with authority , the father willalso become more involved in the lives of the children and get more information about them.

Furthermore, it is in the interest of the children that they see the father more often. The children are said to have a taxed history. However, the relationship between the parents is long gone. The father has never caused unsafe situations in the past. The parents were divorced , so that the father could not always see how things were going with the mother at home. The GI frustrates the contact between the father and the children . That the childrenbeing upset after a visit with the father is no reason to stop the contact. The GI and / or foster parents may have influenced the children , so that they do not dare to say that they want to have contact with the father . It has also not been investigated what interaction with the father actually causes in the children . There is insufficient support for the fact that the children in the foster family have experienced a positive development . The contested decision must therefore be annulled and its requests for authorityabout the children and about an access arrangement between him and the children should be assigned, according to the father .


5.4
The GI argues that the contested decision must be ratified. Taxing the father with custody of the children and possible relocation of the children to the father is no longer an issue. The children have a burdened history, trauma, social-emotional problems and behavioral problems. They have been seriously neglected and witnessed domestic violence in the past . It is the parents failed to them from dangerous situations to protect . The childrenneed a safe, structured, loving and predictable parenting environment to be able to fulfill their developmental tasks . They require more than average attention, which the father cannot offer them. The fact that the father now has his life in order does not mean that he has sufficient parenting skills to be able to care for and raise the (seriously traumatized) children . It is therefore important that their placement in the foster family is continued and guaranteed. Breaking through their current living situation is harmful to the development of the children . The childrenappear to be attached to the current foster home and need clarity about their future prospects.

In addition, the children have repeatedly indicated that they do not want to have contact with their father . The social workers regularly talked to the children about resuming intercourse , but they initially did not want any form of contact with the father . After contact between the father and the children took place again in June 2017 , the children were seriously upset. After an incident at the court in August 2017, in which the father dropped out in the presence of child A against thefoster father , the children have again indicated that they no longer want to have contact with the father . The children are leading in shaping the relationship with the father . Establishing a fixed access arrangement is therefore not in their interest and a forced access arrangement will have an adverse effect. This does not alter the fact that once every eight weeks the children are discussed about the parents and possibly contact with them, the GI says.


5.5
The mother stated the following at the hearing on appeal. The father was involved with the children before being placed under supervision . He has also always had his life in order. The children have stayed in unsafe foster homes after the out-of- home placement . The father must therefore be entrusted with the custody of the children and the access arrangements between the father and the children must be enforced, according to the mother .


5.6
The foster mother stated the following at the hearing on appeal. The father 's request is understandable. In the past the children were disturbed for a long time after dealing with the father . This has since become less. That the children get upset is related to their traumas. They are therefore more sensitive to stress . child A has become less afraid in recent years. Everyone can be very proud of the children ; they are doing very well. The Spirit team is strong. The counseling looks at the childrenand what they need. The children must have a good relationship with their parents , as long as this does not prevent their development , the foster mother says .


5.7
child A and child B have stated separately on the occasion of their conversation with the chairman that they are doing well. At the moment they do not want to have contact with the father , because this causes tensions in them and they get upset, according to the children .


5.8
At the hearing on appeal, the Council advised the Court to ratify the contested decision. The children now stay in the foster home for more than four years . It is important that they hear from the father that they are allowed to grow up in the foster family . This is also important for the contact between the father and the children . The father now has his life on the ride. The GI must remain in charge of custody of the children . The father's request to be charged with custody of the childrentherefore goes too far. It is important that the father is well informed about the children . In addition, structure should be applied when dealing with the children so that they know where they stand, according to the council .


5.9
The court considers as follows.

The following has emerged from the documents and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal. For the children there is a taxed history. In the past they were exposed for a long time in the home situation with the mother to domestic violence between the parents and with the mother there was aggressive behavior and substance use. The necessary assistance was not started because the mother kept the assistance provided. The children were placed under the supervision of the GI and in November 2013placed out of home . They subsequently stayed in various (crisis) foster families. Since October 2014 they have been living in the current (therapeutic) foster family of the Bascule. The regular foster families proved inadequate because the children , because of everything they had experienced, needed an environment that offered a lot of safety , clarity and structure. In 2014, the children went through a diagnostic process in the Bascule. It was found there that the children had experienced a lot. The childrenwere very restless during this process and not yet able to speak about what they had experienced in the home situation. With child B there was separation anxiety and an adaptive disorder, and child A was very loyal to his parents . The children were in a survival mode, so trauma processing was not yet possible. De Bascule therefore advised to place the children in a quiet environment , creating space for them to start treatment. The Bascule report of 24 July 2015 shows that childA is chronically traumatized and that he has post-traumatic stress and dissociation complaints. He also has attachment problems. child A has witnessed domestic violence between the parents . Since its placement in a stable environment, it has shown growth in its overall development . It was advised to start with EMDR techniques and, as soon as possible, to apply EMDR therapy. In addition, work could be done on the attachment problem of child A. The council report of September 16, 2016 (hereinafter: the council report) also shows that child A is sexualexceeded behavior, was troubled by concentration problems at school and was anxious. With regard to child B, the council report shows that he too showed sexual behavior at school . He also often argued with peers. child B had difficulty accepting rules, had low self-confidence and did not perform well at school due to his concentration problems. Furthermore, had child B emotion regulation problems and nightmares. From January 2017 to the beginning of April 2017, child B was admitted to Triversum, where observation and diagnosis took place. child B subsequently returned to the current onefoster family .

The Family Plan of 1 October 2018 shows the following with regard to the supervised intercourse moments that have taken place between the parents and the children since the out-of- home placement . The children announced in August 2016 that after a visit with their parents they had problems with each other. The access arrangement with the mother was stopped in August 2016. In October 2016 the access arrangement with the father was suspended because the father had come to live in the neighborhood of the foster family . Thechildren felt threatened and anxious because of this. In December 2016, a relationship with the father did not end positively, as it turned out that the father had an open telephone connection with the mother during the interaction . The children were angry and sad about this. The relationship between the father and the children is then stopped. As a result of this incident, the children have indicated that they no longer want to have contact with their father . In July 2017 has againsupervised intercourse between the father and the children . After this interaction , the children were upset ; they argued, child A was sad and could no longer be comforted, and child B showed serious problem behavior. In August 2017 an incident occurred in which the father after a hearing at the court in front of child A has cursed and yelled at the foster father . child A then informed the fathernot wanting to see for some time. In September 2017, child A indicated (again) that he no longer wanted to have contact with both parents . child B would still be dealing with the father , but wanted only with child A to the Father . In January 2018, the children announced that they no longer wanted to contact their parents . At the hearing on appeal it became apparent that at the end of December 2018 there was again a supervised interaction between the father and the children . Thishandling time went well.


5.10
In view of the above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the father's request to charge him with custody of the children must be rejected, since there is good reason to fear that the children 's interests will be neglected if this request is granted . As appears from the considerations under 5.9 above, the children have a taxed history. At a young age they experienced a lot in the home situation with the mother and are therefore traumatized. The children now stay for more than four years in the current foster home , where they have a positive developmentgo through. The perspective of the children therefore lies with the current foster family and not with the father . In his letter of appeal, the father expressed his wish that the children come to live with him and that he wants to continue raising the children . At the hearing on appeal, on the other hand, he stated that he particularly wanted the authority to be able to obtain more information about the children . The court agrees with the court that if the father is charged with custody of the children, with them again uncertainty and uncertainty arises about their parenting perspective. The court does not consider this to be in the best interests of the children . In addition, the relationship between the father and the foster parents is still variable and that incidents such as those described under 5.9 have also occurred between them in the past. For that reason too, burdening the father with the authority over the children goes against the interests of the children . The court will request the father to charge him with custody of the children reject it and endorse the contested decision on that point.


5.11
With regard to the father 's request to establish an access arrangement between him and the children , the court considers the following. From what has been considered above under 5.9, it appears that the GI has worked in recent years to establish supervised intercourse between the father and the children . The interaction moments have, however, been suspended several times, after these did not go well for the children . The children got upset after intercourse and at different times let them know no intercoursewanting more with the father . In the present proceedings, too, on the occasion of their conversation with the chairman, they again indicated that they do not wish to have contact with the father at the moment , partly because this causes tensions in them. The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that, in view of what they have experienced in the past and the traumas that they have suffered as a result, it is now in conflict with their compelling interests to force them to have contact with the father by means of an established access arrangement . . The court agrees with the GI that the capacity of thechildren should at all times be guiding in shaping the contact and interaction between them and the father , to which the GI, as it has stated, pays attention to the children once every eight weeks . The Court also considers it important that the father is provided with information about the children in a structural manner . At the hearing on appeal, the GI stated that it would pay attention to the way in which the provision of information for the father could be better streamlined. The court of appeal assumes that the GI will honor this commitment.

The Court of Appeal will reject the father 's request to establish access arrangements between him and the children and also ratify the contested decision on this point.


5.12
Insofar as the father has requested that an investigation be ordered by the council , the Court of Appeal considers that such an investigation is not relevant in view of all that has been considered above. In addition, are already sufficiently careful and thorough research has been done by the council . Furthermore, in view of the vulnerability of the children, it is not in their interest to re-burden them with an investigation . The request will therefore be rejected.


5.13
The above leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal is made;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by A. van Haeringen, LL.M., and JW van Zaane, LL.M., in the presence of H. Sapir, LL.M.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 1426