Content indication
Dealing father / son. Since 2011, various relief projects have been deployed to help parents stop the fight. Did not succeed. In particular through the attitude and personality of the father . The father does not grab a last chance either. Dealing stopped in the interest of the son, even though the son says he misses the dealings .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-02
Publication date
2019-04-10
Case number
200.241.513 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court of appeal 200.241.513 / 01

(Case number Court of Overijssel C / 08/214990 / JE RK 18-373)

decision of 2 April 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: T. Karasu in Deventer, the Netherlands

and

the certified institution

Youth Protection Foundation Overijssel,

established in Zwolle,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the mother ,

residing in A,

to be called further: the mother .


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of Overijssel, court seat Zwolle, of April 19, 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 26 June 2018;

- the statement of defense of the GI with production (s);

- a journal report from Karasu of July 10, 2018 with production (s).


2.2
On 5 November 2018, the minor to be notified appeared, who was heard by the court in the absence of parties and interested parties.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 5 November 2018. The father appeared in person, assisted by his lawyer. Mrs B and Mrs C appeared on behalf of the GI . The mother has also appeared. Mr D has appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter referred to as: the Board ) in the context of his advisory role.

At the hearing, the father and the mother agreed that the parents would sign up for a - parenting mediation trajectory - to be determined by Mr. Karasu in consultation with the mother . The Court of Appeal, therefore, in consultation with the father , mother and GI, reserved the decision in the present case and asked the parents to inform the court about the progress of the process.


2.4
After the oral hearing, a journal report from Mr. Karasu of 16 November 2018 with production (s) was received with the permission of the court. In response to this journal report, the Court of Appeal reported to Karasu, by telephone, that the case will be held until 1 February 2019 pending the outcome of the parents' conversations at E and that - depending on the outcome - the court will then decide by interim decision the parents will refer to F.

Subsequently, with the permission of the court, a journal report from Mr Karasu of 12 February 2019 with production (s) and a journal report of Mr Karasu of 12 March 2019 with production (s) were received. The court of appeal - although given the opportunity to do so - no longer received any information from the mother .


3 The facts

3.1
The mother exercises authority over:

- the minor , born in 2006 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ). The father has recognized the minor and was co-charged with the authority over the minor until May 2013 .


3.2
the minor lives with the mother . He lives there as a family with the mother , his stepfather and his half-brother G (2015).


3.3
From 31 October 2011 to 31 October 2015 and from 4 April 2016 to 4 July 2018, the minor (and his sister H) were placed under supervision .


3.4
By order of February 4, 2011 is, for present purposes, the following care arrangements established between the father and the minor :

- once every fourteen days, from Friday at 4 pm to Sunday at 7 pm;

- agree half of the school holidays and all public holidays relevant to the parties in mutual consultation;

- telephone contact once a week.


3.5
By the contested decision - declared enforceable in stock - of 19 April 2018, the court - in accordance with the preliminary request of the GI - amended the care scheme as established by decision of 4 February 2011 in the sense that the care scheme laid down therein between the father and minor are terminated.


3.6
By decision of 26 July 2018, that court of appeal rejected the father 's request for suspension of the operation of the contested decision.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In dispute, the (interpretation of) the father 's right to have contact with the minor .

In the contested decision in so far as is relevant, (by amending the Decision of February 4, 2011) the care arrangements between the father and the minor end. The father appealed against the contested decision with two complaints. Grief one sees at the termination of the right to association and two complaint on hearing the minor . The father requests the court to annul the contested decision and to do so again, if necessary with improvement and addition to the grounds, the GI declare it inadmissible in its introductory requests or reject those requests, or take a decision as the Court of Appeal alleges that it should belong in good justice.


4.2
The GI defends and requests the Court of Appeal to reject the request of the father on appeal and to ratify the contested decision.


4.3
The mother made her position known at the hearing. She is of the opinion that the father will first have to prove by means of a counseling process that he is open to help, before an access arrangement is possible.


5 The reasons for the decision
Hearing the minor


5.1
The father , in his second complaint that the court contrary to Article 12 Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) acted by the minor not to hear. It is common ground that at the time of the proceedings at first instance the minor had not yet reached the age of twelve. The Supreme Court has confirmed on several occasions that, also in the light of Article 12 of the CRC, the court is not obliged to hear a person under the age of 12, barring special circumstances. The request to hear the minor was substantiated by the court. Therefore, the court did not act incorrectly by the minor do not have the opportunity at that time to express its opinion. Moreover, at the time of the appeal , the minor has reached the age of twelve and he has been given the opportunity by the court to express his opinion to the court in person. He also took advantage of that opportunity. The opinion of the minor was given briefly and concisely by the court at the hearing.

The right to association


5.2
Under Article 1: 265g paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) the jug juvenile court at the request of the certified institution for the duration of the supervision order division of the care and upbringing of rules governing the right of association to determine whether to the extent that this is necessary in the interests of the minor .

As soon as the supervision order has been terminated, the regulation established on the basis of the first paragraph applies on the basis of paragraph 3 of article 1: 265g BW as a regulation as referred to in - under no joint authority - article 1: 377a, paragraph 2 BW. Article 1: 377a paragraph 3, DCC denies the judge the right to association only if: a. Dealing seriously could prejudice the mental or physical development of

the child , or b. the parent must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or c. the child who is twelve years or older , when he interrogates serious objections to interaction

has shown with his parent , or d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.3
The court of appeal is of the opinion , contrary to what the father has argued, that there are changed circumstances in the sense that there is still no improvement in the struggle between the parents and that the minor is still in that struggle. Furthermore, the Court of Appeal, like the District Court, is of the opinion that it is necessary in the interests of the minor that the care scheme established by order of 4 February 2011 be amended, in the sense that the care scheme is terminated. The Court of Appeal considers this as follows.


5.4
Since the divorce of the parents in March 2010, now nine years, there has been a continuous struggle between the parents . the minor was placed under supervision in 2011 because the parents were unable to implement parenthood jointly and on the basis of mutual respect .

Since then, various counseling programs have been started with the aim of getting the parents to come to joint agreements about intercourse and to have the parents stop fighting and respect each other as educators. However, this assistance did not get off the ground or did not get enough. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal it has become plausible that the most important obstacles to the realization of this assistance lie in the attitude and personality of the father .

For example, it appears from the documents that the Parental Staying route offered to the parents in 2013 did not get off the ground because of the father 's attitude .

Furthermore, at the end of 2014 / early 2015 , the father refused to participate in system discussions / family treatment at the then Youth Care Agency .

In 2016, an attempt was made to restart the Parenting process, this time via F. Also, this process has not got off the ground because the father refused to accept the conditions that F suggested the launch aid .

The Children from Knel van F route also did not get off the ground. The reason for this was that the father did not want to work in a group on joint parenthood .

By letter of 15 January 2018, the GI gave some urgent advice to the father and gave him a month to show that he was following the advice. The GI has indicated that if after a month that the father can not urgent advice or wants to follow the GI will submit a request to the court to change (termination) of the care regime . The GI subsequently found that the father had not sufficiently followed the advice and submitted the present preliminary request.

The GI has found, among other things, that the assistance provided has had insufficient results. The parents failed to consult with each other in a constructive manner. In addition, they use different parenting styles. For the minor , who was diagnosed with PDD-NOS and ODD in 2014, this causes a great deal of uncertainty. Switching between the parents requires a lot from him and, from the father 's side , a lot of pressure is exerted on him. As a result, according to the GI - and the court shares this view - there is a great risk that the minor will start a loyalty conflictdevelop . The mother has in recent years shown a willingness to her assistance to be given to the care and engage themselves in efforts to achieve the goals set, but it appears that the father did not want to cooperate and showed no commitment, or requirements not stated in the interests of the minor . The father continued to discuss the grounds of the supervision order , was not sufficiently open to advice, showed no problem awareness and did not show that he wanted to make an effort to change the situation. The father only wanted the (extension of the) relationshipand showed insufficient insight that first the mutual situation with the mother had to be improved.

Ultimately, the supervision order ended on July 4, 2018 because the GI no longer saw any opportunities to achieve the set goals.


5.5
Following the proceedings at the hearing on November 5, 2018, the Court of Appeal saw reason to give the father a last chance to show that he is fully committed to improving the mutual relationship with the mother during a parenting mediation process in order to thus being able to give substance to parenthood in a proper way . The E report of 6 February 2019 shows that the father did not take this opportunity. It follows from the report that the social workers did not succeed in having the parents talk to each other about their role as parents . It is thesocial workers noticed that the father mainly talks in terms of accusation , that he seems limited in his way of communicating and does not show any capacity for reflection. During conversations with E, the father indicated that he only wanted to talk about resuming the relationship between him and the minor . However, the court of appeal has already explicitly pointed out to the father at the hearing that the minor should in the first instance be left out of the process and that the conversations should be aimed at creating a basis between the parents againamong themselves, which ensures that there is sufficient mutual trust to discuss the possibilities of re-establishing contacts between the father and the minor . E 's counselors also explained to the father that mediation meetings should first be conducted with the parents to investigate whether the parents are able to talk to each other about how they can be parents together . After two interviews, E concluded that there is no possibility to start providing assistance , because the necessary minimum reflection on his own actions is lacking in thefather . In view of the long history of being placed under supervision and the fact that no assistance was provided during that period , it can be concluded, according to E, that there is such an inability of the father that even in a voluntary context there are no possibilities parties for safe access arrangements .

In a letter of 27 February 2019, the father responded to the findings of E, but in the opinion of the Court of Appeal he did not adequately challenge E's conclusions with that letter.


5.6
The Court of Appeal shares the aforementioned conclusions of E, all the more so now that the attitude taken by the father in the conversations with E corresponds to his attitude towards the GI in the past, as stated in 5.4.

It follows from the foregoing that a sufficient effort has been made in recent years to improve communication and cooperation between parents , but this has not led to a positive result due to the attitude of the father . Against that background, it is also unlikely that this situation will change in the coming period.

the minor has been exposed to the parents' struggle for years, regardless of the period in which contacts with his father were (too) much demanded of him. It has been found that the father is not accountable for his behavior and he has not shown sufficient positive behavioral change in recent years. The Court of Appeal therefore agrees with the court that there are grounds to end the relationship . This leads to the Court of Appeal confirming the contested decision.


5.7
The Court of Appeal realizes that the above judgment is not in line with the wishes expressed by the minor during the child interview with the Court. after all, the minor has indicated to the court that he misses the man's weekend with the father . Although that wish is very understandable, it does not affect what has been considered above. Moreover, the Court of Appeal does not exclude that this wish arises from the loyalty conflict in which the minor may find himself. The Court of Appeal considers it to be in the best interests of the minor that he is no longer drawn to and that he now experiences peace and clarity.


5.8
For the sake of completeness, the court of appeal considers that the above judgment does not affect the information obligation of the mother , as imposed by the court by order of 8 June 2017.


6 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the court will ratify the contested decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

confirms the order of the court of Overijssel, court seat Zwolle, of April 19, 2018.

This decision was made by mrs. IM Dölle, MP den Hollander and BJ Voerman, assisted by Mr. HB Fortuyn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 2 April 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 3073