Content indication
Termination of authority of mother and appointment of foster parents as guardian . A parental investigation has never taken place because it was clear from an early age that the child 's perspective did not lie with the mother .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-06-06
Publication date
2019-07-03
Case number
200.248.369 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.248.369 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/160729 / FA RK 18-533)

decision of 6 June 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: SM Wolfert, LL.M.

and

the child protection council ,

Northern Netherlands region,

location Groningen,

respondent on appeal,

to be called: the council .

The following are considered as other stakeholders:

the foster parents ,

residing in B,

to be called: the foster parents .


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of 25 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on October 23, 2018;

- the defense;

- a journal report on behalf of Mr. Wolfert of 10 December 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report on behalf of mr. Wolfert of 21 December 2018 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 6 May 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- Mr C on behalf of the council ;

- the foster mother .


3 The facts

3.1
The mother , the born in 2011 minor (: hereinafter minor ). The mother was legally charged only with custody of the minor .


3.2
the minor has been under the supervision of the GI since 9 November 2012 and has been placed in detention since 25 April 2013 with an authorization .


3.3
the minor has been staying with the foster parents since 22 June 2013 .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, the court, at the request of the council , terminated the mother 's authority over the minor and appointed the foster parents as guardians .


4.2
The mother lodged an appeal against the decision with two complaints

July 25, 2018. These complaints refer to the termination of the authority . The mother requests that the decision of 25 July 2018 be annulled and, again, lawfully rejecting the request of the council .


4.3
The council defends and requests that the decision of 25 July 2018 be ratified.


4.4
The court will discuss the complaints per subject.


5 The reasons for the decision
The right to be heard (complaint 1)


5.1
The mother argues that the contested decision must be annulled, since the court has violated the principle of being heard, because it may not have been properly summoned. Insofar as the mother has indeed not been properly summoned to court and she has not been able to exercise her right to be heard, such an omission can be remedied on appeal by giving the wrongly summoned party the opportunity to be heard. position (see, for example, HR 26 March 2004, ECLI: NL: HR: 2004: AO1991 ). Now that the Court of Appeal has given the mother the opportunity to do so and she has made use of it, there has now been a fair hearing.


5.2
Although it has no legal consequences, the Court of Appeal considers it important to state at this location that it has no reason to doubt the reason for the mother 's absence in the proceedings at first instance. Her absence at the court hearing does not fit in with the image that the mother has always appeared at meetings and sessions where she was expected. There must have been an unfortunate coincidence.

Authority (complaint 2)


5.3
Pursuant to Section 1: 266 of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may terminate the authority of a parent if

a. a minor so that he grows in his development seriously being threatened , and the parent is not responsible for the care and upbringing is able to contribute within the person and the development of the minor acceptable to consider term, or

b. the parent abuses the authority .


5.4
In view of the provisions of Articles 3 and 20 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child , the Court of Appeal considers that the interests of the child are paramount when taking a decision to end the custody of the parent (s) . The child who does not live in his own family has the right to certainty, continuity and undisturbed attachment in the alternative living situation and clarity about his or her upbringing perspective.


5.5
The mother argues that she is able to bear full parenting responsibility and to offer the minor a safe and responsible parenting environment. She states that her situation is now very different from when the minor was placed out of the house. The mother is of the opinion that there has been insufficient research into the extent to which she can raise the minor . She therefore proposes to appoint an expert in accordance with Article 810a, paragraph 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure.


5.6
The Council argues that the conditions as referred to in Section 1: 266 of the Dutch Civil Code are met. According to the council, it has been sufficiently demonstrated that the mother is unable to care for and educate the minor within an acceptable period of time. The perspective of the minor lies with the foster parents , according to the council . The council advises to end the authority of the mother over the minor . The Council does not consider a new investigation to be in the best interests of the minor .


5.7
It appears that the minor was less than two years old when he was placed out of the house. The mother has challenged this measure from the start. Nevertheless, the placement of the minor 's out-of- home placement has always been extended and has been tested twice on appeal. This establishes the necessity and legitimacy of the (continued) out-of- home placement of the minor , as well as the threat to his development that arose when the mother was still responsible for him. the minor has been living with the foster parents for six years. He will be eight in a few months.


5.8
By extension of officially known order of 21 September 2017 (case number 200.220.083 / 01), the extension of the placement of the minor over the period from 9 May 2017 to 9 November 2017 was confirmed on appeal. The consideration given in that decision gives a good representation of the concerns about the minor and the mother and is undoubtedly relevant in this case and is decisive for the decision on custody . The arguments put forward by the mother in these proceedings give no reason to judge otherwise. The Court of Appeal refers in particular to legal considerations 5.3 to 5.6 of the aforementioned decision, worded as follows:

5.3 The documents and the proceedings at the hearing showed that the minor was placed at different addresses for different (longer) periods in the first more than one and a half years of his life, which led to much unrest and insecurity for the minor . the minor has therefore not established a secure bonding relationship with the mother . the minor was placed out of home at the end of April 2013 and has been developing positively in all areas since his placement with the foster parents in June 2013 . the minor has since safely attached himself to itfoster family . He experiences a lot of rest, regularity and clarity from the foster parents and responds well to that. the minor sees the mother once a month for an hour and a half at the foster parents' home in the presence of the foster mother and with guidance from the GI.


5.4
As of July 2016, in the context of a request by the GI to the Council to investigate an authority-terminating measure, Youth Assistance Friesland has investigated the future perspective of the minor . To this end, two intercourse moments were observed between the minor and the mother . The observations before, during and after the visitation arrangement with the mother show that the minor shows resistance to go to the visit and that he visits the motherduring the visit. the minor from this both verbally and non-verbally by reacting emotionally and expressing his dissatisfaction with this. the minor experiences no safety with the mother and shows that he finds the visits unpleasant. Information from the foster mother and the minor 's teacher showed that the minor exhibited noticeable and unprecedented behavior in the period after the observation visits. He cried a lot, was upset and angry, the teacher said. On the basis of the findings about the observed visits and the other available information about the mother , the minor and the care provision , Jeugdhulp Friesland in its Advisory Report of

December 22, 2016 advised the GI to allow the minor to grow up in the foster family . Contrary to what was argued on behalf of the mother in her second complaint, the Court of Appeal has no reason to doubt the soundness of the aforementioned advisory report now that, in addition to the observations, four conversations have been held with the mother , informers have been spoken and past reports have been consulted.


5.5
In view of the long-term placement in the foster family , which involves a secure attachment to the foster parents , as well as the aforementioned findings and the advice of Jeugdhulp Friesland, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that a transfer to the mother is not in the interest of the minor is. Whatever the intention of the mother to maintain the relationship with the foster parents , a move to the mother will improve the bonding relationship of the minor with the foster parentsbreakthrough and disrupt his stable and safe upbringing situation. This will result in a trauma for the minor , who has already experienced a lot in his young life, which can seriously damage his current development and attachment . In order to allow the placement with the foster parents to continue, the court considers it necessary to extend the authorization for out-of- home placement in the interest of the care and upbringing of the minor . As far as the mother has wanted to argue that there is an unjustified violation of the right to family life, as referred to in Article 8 of the ECHR, this is not an objective, in view of the provisions of paragraph 2 of that article and what has been considered above.


5.6
The mother has also stated that she now has her living situation in order. Since April 2016 she has been accompanied by a social worker from D, she has independent living space, receives benefits and is under administration . The mother indicated to the researcher at Jeugdhulp Friesland that three years ago she was unable to take care of the minor and that she thinks she can handle this well. She has also indicated that she is open to assistance . Although the court has an eye for the positive turn of the motherseems to have given her life, this does not alter the judgment of the court, in view of what has been considered above about the attachment of the minor in the foster family and the dangers for his development in the event of relocation . In the opinion of the court , the acceptable period in which the minor could be placed back with the mother has already expired (for some time).


5.9
It has since become apparent that the mother did indeed give a positive turn to her life at the time and that she has managed to retain it so far. Given the difficult situation she is facing, a compliment is appropriate. It is not disputed that the mother is now well organized and has good contact and cooperates with the foster mother . All this does not alter the fact that the minor is a very damaged and vulnerable child . The cause of this stems from the time that he still lived with the mother . the minor was then only a baby / toddler and therefore completely dependent on his caregiver (s). In that phase that was so important for the development of the minor , the mother did not (yet) have her life in order. As a result, it was unable to provide the minor at that time with the stability and security that he needed, with all its consequences. The situation in which the minor arrived at the foster parents in June 2013 is described as that of a wild animal.


5.10
The mother blames the GI for not having done enough to work towards the placement of the minor . She is of the opinion that no parental investigation has taken place incorrectly . She would like this to happen anyway, which is why she is making a request pursuant to Article 810a, paragraph 2 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure. It is true that in this case, for example, no NIFP investigation or a mother-child-home admission has taken place, while in some other situations it does. In this specific case, however, it was clear at an early stage that the minor was transferred back to the mothercould not accept that it is justified that such processes have not started. On the basis of her observations of visiting contacts between the mother and the minor at the end of 2016, Jeugdhulp Friesland has already concluded that the minor 's perspective did not lie with the mother . About a year later, the court tested and adopted that conclusion. Home placement is already bumping into the minor attachment problems . Due to his false start at the mother's home, he has suffered considerable damage in his development . It by the minor during the visits with the motherexhibited and observed behavior has clearly shown that he experiences insecurity precisely in relation to the mother .

The announcement by the foster mother at the hearing that this year the minor has great difficulty with the transition from kindergarten to group 3 shows again how sensitive a boy he is. Moreover, it performs at a lower than average level. The question is whether the minor can survive in regular primary education. Nevertheless, the mother does not seem to recognize the vulnerability of the minor and his more than average need for rest and structure.


5.11
All in all, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the period considered acceptable to the person and development of the minor within which the mother is able to bear the responsibility for his care and upbringing has expired.


5.12
It immediately follows from the above that the mother 's request for counter-expertise (Article 810a, paragraph 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure) must be rejected. Further investigation into the parenting skills of the mother in the current situation that she has her life in order cannot co-lead to a decision on this case and is contrary to the minor interests of the minor . The Court of Appeal also refers to its decision in this regard

21 September 2017, whereby an identical request from the mother was rejected for the same reason. Legal consideration 5.8 is worded as follows:

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that ordering an investigation is contrary to the interests of the minor , so that the mother 's request can not be granted. As has been considered above, the minor benefits from the continuation of his current stable and familiar parenting environment in the foster family and there is no need for relocation . A new investigation into the parenting skills of the mother cannot therefore lead to a decision on the case, apart from the fact that this again causes unrest and uncertainty for the minor will result, which is also not in his interest in view of the above considerations regarding the acceptable period.


5.13
All things considered, it is in the opinion of the court in the interests of the minor to guarantee stability and continuity in his or her upbringing situation by ending the custody of the mother .


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal must ratify the contested decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

confirms the decision of the Northern Netherlands court, location Leeuwarden, of

July 25, 2018;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. MP den Hollander, MAF Holtvluwer-Veenstra and

JL Roubos, assisted by Mr. DM Welbergen as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 6 June 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4887