Content indication
Care scheme , examination by the council .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-19
Publication date
2019-12-11
Case number
200,266,922 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.266.922 / 01

Case number court: C / 13/622550 / FA RK 17-398

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 19 November 2019 on

the woman ,

residing at place A,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: WH Boomstra in Amsterdam,

and

the man ,

residing at place B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: F. Hofstra, Leeuwarden.

The following is designated as an interested party:

- the minor son (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ).

The following are designated as informers:

- the Certified Youth Protection Agency Amsterdam Region, established in Amsterdam (hereinafter referred to as: the GI).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the child protection council ,

established in The Hague,

location: Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter referred to as: the District Court) of 11 September 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The woman lodged an appeal on 2 October 2019 against the aforementioned decision of 11 September 2019.


2.2
The man filed a statement of defense on October 22, 2019.


2.3
the minor has expressed his opinion by letter.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 24 October 2019, simultaneously with the appeal case with case number 200.255.910 / 01. Appeared are:

- the woman assisted by her lawyer;

- the man, assisted by his lawyer.

- the GI, represented by two colleagues from the family manager involved in the voluntary framework;

- the council , represented by Mrs. AMT van der Hoorn.


3 The facts

3.1
The marriage of the parties was dissolved on 24 June 2009 as a result of the divorce decision of 24 June 2009 of the court in Algeria. According to the extracts from the basic registration persons, both parties have the Dutch nationality.


3.2
Parties are the parents of:

- the minor , born in 2007.

the minor has his principal place of residence with the woman and the parties jointly exercise authority over the minor .


3.3
The man married Y in 2015 (hereinafter referred to as: Y). From this marriage were born:

- child A in 2015 (hereinafter referred to as: child A);

- child B in 2016 (hereinafter referred to as: child B).


3.4
The woman married X in 2017 (hereinafter referred to as: X).


3.5
In the divorce decision of 24 June 2009, the court in Algeria granted the man access to the minor from Thursday 9 a.m. to Friday 4 p.m. and half of the religious and national holidays and half of the school holidays. The court in Algeria also ordered the man to pay alimony for the child ... (the court understands: the minor ) in the amount of 5,000 Algerian dinars, starting on the day the proceedings were started until he started is no longer required by law for this purpose. The amount is appealed by decision of 11 January 2010alimony for the minor at 3,000 Algerian dinars.


3.6
By order of the Court of December 18, 2013 is as sharing the care and upbringing (hereinafter called: the care arrangement ) stipulates that minors from June 2014 to the week the weekend staying with the man in province.


3.7
By decision of the court of 12 December 2018, the decision with regard to the pro forma care scheme was reserved pending the progress of the Parenthood Staying with Altra process . The council has also been asked, in the event of a process that has not been passed positively, to consider whether a council investigation is necessary and - if so - to conduct an investigation into the dealings and to submit a report on this to the court.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision maintains the existing care scheme and, as regards collection and delivery, provides as follows:

- the woman must take the minor until January 2020 to a neutral place in place A, where the man then picks up the minor and returns it at the end of the moment of interaction ;

- from January 2020, the wife must take the minor to the husband's home (in place B) and the husband must then bring the minor back to the wife's home (in place A) at the end of the intercourse .

This decision was made at the request of the man to share the collection.

The request by the woman to change the care scheme to a care scheme that the court considers to be in the best interests of the minor has been rejected.


4.2
With the annulment of the contested decision, the woman requests:

- to allocate the preliminary request of the woman still insofar as it relates to the termination of the care arrangements ;

- at least if the care arrangement is not completed, to determine the man's minor retrieves and returns to a neutral spot instead A under the care arrangements ;

- order the man to pay the costs of the proceedings in both instances.


4.3
The man requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
At the discretion of the court is the care arrangement between the man and the minor for. It is established that the minor is currently staying with the man for a weekend every fourteen days, as well as half of the school holidays, where the man picks up and brings. Pursuant to Section 1: 253a of the Dutch Civil Code, the Court of Appeal will take such a decision as it would appear to be desirable in the interests of the minor .


5.2
The woman argues that the court has wrongly determined that it is not in the best interests of the minor to change the relationship with the man. the minor indicates that he does not want to go to his father . According to the woman, this does not stem from the struggle between parties, but from the man's behavior. The bond between father and son is missing, because his father pays no attention to him. the minor is very bored during the weekends with his father in place B. The care arrangement is also stressful for the minor . the minor is a very talented football player, and by the care arrangement it is hindered in its possible career as a professional football player. After all, he cannot participate in training and competitions from his football team every other week. He also runs the risk of missing out on the scouts while staying with the man.

In addition, the woman argues that the court has wrongly not taken into account the financial situation of the woman and her partner and has wrongly determined that a balanced distribution of parental responsibility between the parties results from the collection and delivery of the minor . The wife and her partner are dependent on social assistance benefits and do not have a car at their disposal. They spend € 150 each time on the minor by train to place B. She argues that she is not obliged to incur these travel costs, because she did not voluntarily go to live in place A, but fled by and for the violence that the man used within the relationship. The woman believes that the man should bear the financial burden of the care scheme . In addition, the woman takes care of the collection and delivery to school, friends and football the rest of the time. When the man picks up and brings the minor away , the parental responsibility becomes more balanced, the woman says.


5.3
The man states that there is indeed a bond between father and son. He undertakes all kinds of activities with the minor on weekends and during school holidays. He denies that the current care arrangement , the minor would impede his possible career as a professional footballer. If there is a scout for the minor, it can be decided in consultation with the scout and the professional football club how the minor can have both contact with his father and a career as a professional footballer. The man states that the woman has chosen to live elsewhere with theminor . The consequences of her choice must therefore be for her account and risk. He further states that a day return by train is available for € 19, so that the travel costs do not amount to € 300 per month. The man disputes that he has two cars at his disposal and that he can pick up and deliver a company car free of charge.


5.4
The documents in the file show that the Parenthood Staying track did not get off the ground because (one of) parties does not have sufficient command of the Dutch language. The council then advised in the first instance to appoint a special liquidator . The court has not seen any reason to appoint a guardian ad litem , now that the care regulations are being observed by the parties and the GI is involved in a voluntary context and the GI can provide advice to parties where necessary.

The GI at the hearing on appeal submitted that the Board is now called a safeguard investigation perform to as the GI for a long time could not come talking to the woman and her spouse. The Council has not yet started this protection investigation.


5.5
During the oral hearing on appeal, the woman's lawyer indicated that the interpreter ordered by him had canceled at the last minute and that the woman without an interpreter did not sufficiently understand what was being discussed. The court parties then held that the court sees cause the board to request an investigation to carry out the care arrangements between the man and the minor , this study can possibly be combined with the protection research already by the GI is invited to the council . At a later session, the content of thecare arrangement . Both parties agreed.

The Court of Appeal requests the Council to conduct an investigation and subsequently issue an opinion on the following questions:

1. What is the current care arrangement between the minor and the man by the minor experience?

2. Are there factors that hamper this care scheme ? If so, what are they and to what extent do these occur with the minor , with the male and with the female? Can these factors be eliminated and, if so, how and in what period?

3. How is the care arrangement in form and frequency, including the collection and delivery in the interests of the minor , to be designed?

The Council will be requested to inform the court in writing about the results of the investigation . The handling of the case will be held for this until the pro forma date to be reported.


5.6
The court deems it in the interest of the minor current, pending the examination board care arrangement between the man and the minor continues. With regard to the collection and delivery, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that this should be done by the man for the time being until further decisions are made, now that he - unlike the woman - has a car. The Court of Appeal will therefore annul the contested decision on that point. When determining the amount of child support (case number 200.255.910 / 01), the Court of Appeal shall take the travel expenses of the man for the purpose of collecting and bringing the minor under the care scheme into account .


5.7
This leads to the following decision.


6 Decision
The court:

Annuls the decision, the appeal of which is provided, in so far as it stipulates that from January 2020 the wife must take the minor to the husband's home (in place B) and the husband then returns him to the wife's home at the end of the moment of intercourse ( to place A), and to the extent that:

states under the care regime that the man the minor until this procedure shall be decided, will pick up after 1 January 2020 and return to a neutral position in location A;

before deciding further:

requests the Council to conduct an investigation as described above under 5.5;

continues to handle the case pro forma until Sunday 2 February 2020 with a request to the council to inform the court in writing of the results of the investigation before that date ;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

states that the handling of the case will be continued on a date to be determined after receipt of the report from the council , for which parties, the council and the GI will be summoned.

This decision was made by AVT de Bie, GW Brands-Bottema and RG Kemmers, in the presence of A. Blijleven, as clerk of the court, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 19 November 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 4366