Content indication
Access regulations (Article 1: 265g of the Dutch Civil Code). The relationship between father and child is ended. The father has not exploited his chances, he does not want assistance , has no insight into his own share in the problem and sets his own conditions for dealing with it that are not in the child 's interest. Explanation in clear language to the child .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-14
Publication date
2019-05-28
Case number
200,245,789 / 01 and 200,252,709 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case numbers court of appeal 200.245.789 / 01 and 200.252.709 / 01

(Case number Court of Overijssel C / 08/221362 / JE RK 18-1361)

decision of 14 May 2019

in both cases:

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant in the main appeal,

in the case with case number 200.252.709 / 01: defendant in the incidental appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: RW de Gruijl in Rotterdam

(in the case with case number 200.245.789 / 01: formerly SM Wolfert in Leek),

and

the certified institution

William Schrikker Foundation for Youth Protection and Youth Probation ,

office in Amsterdam,

the defendant in the main appeal,

in the case with case number 200.252.709 / 01: the applicant in the cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the mother ,

living at a secret address,

to be called further: the mother .


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the orders of the court of Overijssel, court seat Zwolle, of 23 August 2018 and 31 October 2018 (established in writing on 14 November 2018), pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings
In the case with case number 200.245.789 / 01:


2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 7 September 2018;

- the defense with production (s);

- a letter from Mr. Wolfert of 13 September 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Wolfert of 25 September 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Wolfert of 25 October 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr Wolfert of 12 November 2018 with production (s).

In the case with case number 200.252.709 / 01:


2.2
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on January 14, 2019;

- the statement of defense also occasionally appeals with production (s);

- the defense in the incidental appeal;

- a journal report from mr. De Gruijl of 11 February 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. De Gruijl of 13 March 2019 with production (s).

In both cases


2.3
On 15 April 2019, the minor to be specified below and the minor were heard by the court in the absence of interested parties.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 15 April 2019. The cases were handled simultaneously and jointly. Appeared is the father , assisted by his lawyer. On behalf of the GI appeared Ms B (youth care worker), Ms C and Ms D. The mother has also appeared. At the hearing, Mr. D, on behalf of the GI, also spoke on the basis of the pleadings submitted by her.


3 The facts

3.1
The father and the mother have been married to each other . They are the parents of the minor the minor , born in 2005 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ).

The parents also have an adult son: E, born in 2000.


3.2
the minor lives with the mother . The mother exercises authority over the minor .


3.3
From 10 December 2007 to 10 March 2013, the minor was placed under supervision . As of October 9, 2014, he was again placed under supervision . The term of supervision of the minor has been extended most recently to 9 October 2019.


3.4
By decision of 4 February 2016, this court of appeal established an access arrangement between the father and the minor for one-day supervised intercourse , whereby the day on which and the duration will be determined by the GI. The Court of Appeal also determined that these intercourse moments will be evaluated after six months, whereby it will be examined whether intercourse can subsequently take place unaccompanied and whether the intercourse moments can be extended to a weekend per month.


3.5
By order of 2 May 2017, the court - insofar as relevant here - rejected the father 's request for a change (extension) of the access arrangement . An appeal has been lodged against this decision. By interim decision of 13 February 2018, this court of appeal - insofar as it is relevant here - reserved the decision regarding the definitive access arrangement for a period of four months and determined that the GI should inform the court of the course of contacts. The Court of Appeal has determined that a visitation arrangement applies for the duration of the maintenance period whereby contacts will take place once every two weeks without supervision between thefather and the minor , whereby - after the implementation of an accrual arrangement - the minor stays with the father from Saturday 10 am to Sunday 5 pm . By decision of 5 July 2018, this court of appeal set aside the aforementioned decision of 2 May 2017 insofar as it relates to access arrangements. The court ruled that the minors once a fortnight from Saturday 10:00 to Sunday 17:00 to the father resides, the mother of the minor takes and takes. The court of appeal rejected the more or otherwise requested.


3.6
When initiating proceedings, received by the Court on August 7, 2018, the GI invited by the court to that order of July 5, 2018 certain visitation change in the sense that it is determined that a fellowship scheme applies to the GI desirable.


3.7
The contested - enforceable declared - available August 23, 2018, the juvenile court the by the decision of the court on July 5, 2018 certain access arrangements changed and as temporary access arrangements a supervised visitation rights defined between the minor and the father of one hour fourteen days. The juvenile court judge has taken every further decision for a period of three months, so that during that period it can be seen whether the father can recover, the minor feels comfortable with the provisional access arrangementand whether the breach of trust can be corrected. The father appealed against that decision. This case is registered under number 200.245.789 / 01.


3.8
By the contested - declared enforceable in stock - decision, given orally on 31 October 2018 and adopted in writing on 14 November 2018, the court amended the access arrangement between the father and the minor as laid down in the order of this court of 5 July 2018 and the access arrangements determined as follows:

- weekly guided intercourse for a period of up to two hours contact time,

- where the father must adhere to the conditions set that he may not talk to the minor about:

- where, according to the father , the contact moment should be,

- how often the contact should be,

- who should or may be present during the contact moment,

- when the contact time should be,

- why the contact moment in this way is as agreed,

- what the minor should or should not say to someone.

The father and the GI appealed (incidentally) against this decision. This case is registered under number 200.252.709 / 01.


4 The scope of the dispute
In the case with case number 200.245.789 / 01


4.1
The father brought an appeal against the contested decision of 23 August 2018 with one complaint. This complaint seeks to fully address the dispute on appeal. The father requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision and to again reject the GI 's preliminary request for amendment of the access rules laid down in the decision of this Court of 5 July 2018 .


4.2
The GI defends and requests the Court of Appeal to declare the father inadmissible in the appeal that he has lodged, or to reject his appeal and to ratify the contested decision.

In the case with case number 200.252.709 / 01


4.3
The father brought an appeal against the contested decision of 31 October 2018 with one complaint. This complaint seeks to fully address the dispute on appeal. The father requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision and to again reject the GI 's preliminary request for amendment of the access rules laid down in the decision of this Court of 5 July 2018 .


4.4
The GI defends and requests the Court of Appeal to declare the father inadmissible in the appeal that he has lodged, or to reject his appeal and to ratify the contested decision.

The GI , for its part, brought an incidental appeal with one complaint. This complaint seeks to fully address the dispute on appeal. At the hearing, the GI amended its request in the sense that it requests the Court to annul the contested decision and to do so again:

- Primary: to determine that supervised intercourse between the father and the minor takes place once every two weeks for one hour , under the following conditions:

- before the contact can take place, a consensus must first be reached between the father , the GI and the F about the location, the day, the time and the conditions with which the father must comply during a contact moment as determined by the contested decision of October 31, 2018;

- the F is willing to supervise the interaction ;

- the F assesses in due course whether unaccompanied interaction is possible.

- in the alternative: on the basis of Article 1: 377a paragraph 3 under a, b, c and d of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), to end the relationship between the father and the minor .


4.5
No objection was made on behalf of the father to the modification of the request at the hearing.


4.6
The mother made her position known at the hearing.


5 The reasons for the decision
In the case with case number 200.245.789 / 01


5.1
During the hearing at the hearing, Mr De Gruijl (for procedural reasons) withdrew the appeal in this case. The court concludes from this that the father does not maintain the grounds of this appeal. This means that the court will declare the father inadmissible in his appeal.

In the case with case number 200.252.709 / 01


5.2
The GI based its (subsidiary) request on appeal on Article 1: 377a of the Dutch Civil Code. Now that supervision has been placed under supervision , the court will understand the request as being based on Article 1: 265g of the Dutch Civil Code. Under the first paragraph of this article may juvenile court for the duration of the supervision order at the request of the certified institution sharing the care and upbringing of rules governing the right of association set or change the extent of the interest of the minor is necessary. On the basis of Article 1: 265g, second paragraph of the Dutch Civil Code, the juvenile court judge can change the decision referred to in the first paragraph on the grounds that the circumstances have subsequently changed, or that incorrect or incomplete information was assumed when the decision was taken.


5.3
The first question to be addressed by the court is whether there have been changed circumstances since the decision of the court of 5 July 2018 or whether incorrect or incomplete information was used in that decision. Unlike the father , the court of appeal is of the opinion that there are changed circumstances. In its decision of 5 July 2018, the Court of Appeal took into account in its judgment that there was a positive development on the part of the father . The cooperation with the GI turned out to be improved and the father showed self-insight. More specifically, the father haspronounced at the hearing that he realizes that it is wrong that he sends angry e-mails, posts angry messages on Facebook and promises that he will work to stop showing this behavior. It was also taken into account that all stakeholders agreed that efforts had to be made to standardize the situation and there was a willingness to do so. The court then also considered that in particular the father should get to work with his attitude and behavior and indicated that a major change is expected from the father . The court then assumed that this would be difficult for the father , but judged it to be the fatherget a chance to show that he could improve his behavior and attitude. In doing so, it left it to the GI to initiate an appropriate assistance process, taking into account the circumstances . After the decision of 5 July 2018, the father unfortunately continued to send angry e-mails to the mother and the GI. It has also been found that the father does not want to cooperate in an assistance program at G proposed by the GI . Moreover, the situation is still not normalized. In view of this, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal there have been changed circumstances.


5.4
The court must then assess whether these altered circumstances, by order of July 5, 2018 set visitation rights should be changed. In view of the above legal criterion, the interests of the minor are paramount.

the minor is a vulnerable 14-year-old boy with personal problems, who has already experienced a lot in his life. The mother stated at the hearing that the minor is often very tired, so that he sometimes does not go to school, and that he experiences a lot of stress .

In recent years, all involved endeavored to a minor secure, stable, and reliable structural visitation with the father to establish. By order of 5 July 2018, the Court of Appeal offered the father another chance to show that he can properly implement the access arrangement . The court of appeal has pointed out to the father that the court has concerns about the attitude that the father adopts towards the minor , the mother , the GI and others involved.

The Court of Appeal finds that the access regulations established by the Court of Appeal have not got off the ground either. Despite all the efforts of those involved, it has again not been possible to actually establish and implement an access arrangement that can be considered to be in the best interests of the minor . As already considered above, after the court's decision , the father again sent angry e-mails and posted intimidating messages on Facebook. He also charged the minor with judgments that put him in a loyalty conflict. Following the decision of the court, the GI had a conversation with the father. During that meeting, the GI found that the unchanged behavior of the father is not evidence of self-understanding, the desire to normalize the situation and the willingness to cooperate.

The father then fainted in the presence of the minor on the weekend of 28 July 2018 . This was a frightening event for the minor and this made a big impression on him, which the father seems insufficiently aware of. The event was so frightening for the minor that the minor did not dare to go to the father the next visit weekend .

Subsequently, by decision of 23 August 2018, the court ruled that the interaction should take place accompanied . The GI has attempted to have the assisted access moments take place, but one contact moment did not go well and one contact moment was canceled because the father had sent an intimidating email to the GI the day before .

The actual situation now is that since August 25, 2018 there has been no interaction . The counseling process at G that the GI deemed necessary (understandable) did not get off the ground and the father has indicated on several occasions that he also does not want to accept help from G. Finally, the mother also sees such a trajectory no longer possible due to the persistent angry messages from the father .


5.5
In view of the above state of affairs, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, in the interest of the minor interaction, it can only be supervised . the minor has experienced too much uncertainty in recent years as to whether or not a parental will go ahead and, if so, how the father would behave during a parental moment . The minor is also too often confronted with fierce emotions from the father , so that he makes unpredictable and reproachful statements with which he entrusts the minor .


5.6
At the hearing, however, the father explicitly stated at the hearing that he does not want supervised intercourse and also no assistance , at least that he - just like the GI - wants to set his own conditions for intercourse and assistance . The father had already explained this to the GI and the emergency services . The father further believes that it is mainly the GI and the mother who have acted incorrectly and that there would be no problems if the GI and the motheradhere to the conditions. From this attitude of the father and from the conditions he sets, the court shows that the father has no insight into his own share in the situation that has arisen. The father also shows insufficient insight into what is needed to establish an access arrangement that is in the best interests of the minor . Although the father has acknowledged that it is in his character that he is a bit angry , he does not realize that his remarks appear intimidating and threatening to the people to whom he is addressing.


5.7
Now that supervised intercourse is necessary in the interests of the minor , but the father is in fact not willing to cooperate in assisted intercourse and does not accept assistance in cooperation, the request of the father on appeal and the primary request of the GI are in the incidental appeal cannot be granted. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it is necessary in the interests of the minor that - in accordance with the subsidiary request of the GI - the access arrangement established by order of 5 July 2018must be changed in the sense that the access arrangement is terminated.

Consideration with explanation for the minor


5.8
during the interview at the court on 15 April 2019, the minor said that he wanted to hear the content of the ruling of the family guardian's court. The court agreed at the hearing with those present that - in accordance with the wishes of the minor - the family guardian will tell the court's decision to the minor and also explain it. The Court of Appeal assumes that the parents will adhere to this agreement and will therefore not tell the minor themselves or allow him to read it.

After this, the court will also try to explain in writing to the minor why the court finds that there can be no interaction between the minor and his father .

It is clear to the court that the minor and his father love each other very much and that they enjoy seeing each other and doing fun things together. In the spring of 2018, the minor spent a weekend with his father and that went well. From the summer of 2018, there has unfortunately been a great deal of unrest around the access arrangement . This has been very exciting for the minor and he found it hard to go to his father . The court finds the unrest and tension not good for the minor . The court finds it very important for theminor that he no longer has any tension about dealing with his father . the minor has told the court that he does not like that the father keeps getting angry and keeps sending angry mails to his mother and grandmother. The court discussed this with the father at the session of 15 April 2019. The court does not expect that the father will be able to adjust his behavior and not get angry anymore . Against the father has often said that he has to adjust his behavior and if he does not do the dealwith the minor then must stop.

The court noted that the father lately also angry become angry and emails sent. He has not changed his behavior. The Court of Appeal therefore considers it important that counseling is provided during intercourse , so that intercourse goes smoothly and safely for the minor . During the hearing , the court of appeal asked the father whether he agrees with assisted treatment . The court also asked him if the father wants help. His answers have shown that the father has no guidance and does not want to accept help to learn how to work better with the mother and the GI . The father only accepts guidance and assistance under certain conditions. The Court does not consider these conditions to be in the best interests of the minor . Now that the father has not changed his behavior and does not accept help and guidance , the court finds that there can be no interaction between the minor and the father .


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the court will decide as to report.


7 The decision
In the case with case number 200.245.789 / 01

The court, having an appeal:

declares the father inadmissible in his appeal.

In the case with case number 200.252.709 / 01

The court of appeal, having the principal and the incidental appeal:

Annuls the order of the District Court of Overijssel, seat Zwolle, of 31 October 2018, established in writing on 14 November 2018, and again having:

modifies the access arrangement laid down in the order of this court of 5 July 2018 in the sense that the access arrangement established therein between the father and the minor is terminated;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. MP den Hollander, MAF Holtvluwer-Veenstra and F. Kleefmann, assisted by Mr. HB Fortuyn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 14 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4283