Content indication
Contact and street ban. Insufficiently plausible that there are grounds for granting advanced prohibitions.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-22
Publication date
2019-11-05
Case number
200.262.331 / 01
Procedure
Appeals for interim relief
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
judgment

___________________________________________________________________ _ _

GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM

Department of Civil and Tax Law Team III (Family and Juvenile Law)

Case number: 200.262.331 / 01 SKG

Court case number: C / 13/664971 / KG ZA 19-414 SP / EB

judgment of the multiple family room of October 22, 2019

on

the man ,

living on site,

APPELLANT,

lawyer: CM Achekar in Almere,

against:

the woman ,

living on site,

INITIATED,

lawyer: HA From in Amsterdam.


1 The appeal proceedings
Parties are hereinafter referred to as the man and the woman.

By summons on 2 July 2019, the man lodged an appeal against a judgment of the preliminary relief judge in the Amsterdam District Court on 6 June 2019, given in summary proceedings between the woman as plaintiff and the man as defendant. The apple summons (with productions 1 to 4) contains the grievances.

The man concluded that the court of appeal would set aside the contested judgment and still reject the claims of the woman, sentencing the woman to pay the costs of both instances, including lawyer's salary.

In the event that the Court of Appeal were of the opinion that the case was not suitable for urgent handling, the man requested that the enforceable judgment be suspended for the duration of the appeal proceedings.

As the Court of Appeal understands, the woman claims that the contested judgment be confirmed and that the man's claims be rejected.

At the hearing of 18 September 2019, the parties had their lawyers, mr. From pleaded on the basis of pleading notes that have been submitted. Both parties have brought productions into question.

Finally, judgment was requested.


2 Facts

2.1
In the judgment under 2.1 up to and including 2.7, the preliminary relief judge summarized the facts that it took as the starting point for the assessment of the case. These facts are not in dispute and therefore serve the court as a starting point. In summary and supplemented where necessary with other facts that arise from the parties' uncontested arguments or the content of productions that they do not (sufficiently) contest to which they refer in support of their claims, the facts amount to the following.


2.2
Parties have been married to each other . The marriage was dissolved on 28 March 2017 by registering the divorce decree in the registers of civil status.


2.3
Parties together have one daughter, the minor , born in 2011. the minor has her principal place of residence with the woman. In the parenting plan , parties, insofar as relevant here, have agreed the following:

"(...)

Article 3 - Care and upbringing

Article 3.1 Healthcare / contact arrangement

The parties do not consider it necessary to agree on a clear-cut contact arrangement. The contact between the minor and her father is established in good mutual consultation. If specific, compelling circumstances so require, the care / contact arrangement may be adjusted in the future.

Article 3.2 - Transport

The father will take care of the collection and delivery of the child .

(...) "


2.4
On March 12, 2019, the husband went to the wife's lawyer at the same time as the wife. He has left the waiting room at the request of an office employee.


2.5
On 20 March 2019, the woman reported a threat to the police to the police . In the official report, as far as relevant here, the following is stated:

“Since about a month or two, I think it was on Monday, February 11, 2019, around 2:00 PM, the man started threatening me . Because I told him then that someone else had. Recently I have a new man in my life, X. At that moment I feared for my life. Because the man reacted very fiercely and called to me, in Egyptian Arabic, "I kill you." You are mine".

Since then the man has said to me more than once: “You are still my wife. If you go with another man I will kill you ”. (...) The man also curses me and says many bad words. That's what he calls me a whore.

On Tuesday, March 12, 2019, around 2:40 PM, the man frightened me so much by his behavior that I called the police. Then the police came to my house and the man was supposed to be stopped. However, this has not helped. the man continues to monitor my actions and takes the minor from school when it suits him.

Today, Wednesday, March 20, 2019, around 9:00 a.m. the following happened: the man was waiting in the street again, and this time he was waiting by my friend X's car. I came along with X from my house . (...) I heard (...) the man in Egyptian Arabic, a language I speak in word and writing, saying to my friend: "I am in the situation of killing you". I heard my friend ask, "Why?" Upon which I heard the man say, "You're taking my wife." My friend then said: "I have seen papers that she is divorced." the man said, "That's fake. (...) "."


2.6
X has reported simple abuse of the man to the police . The official report of March 27, 2019 states the following about this:

"On Monday, March 25th, 2019, around 09:00 I came from the house of my friend, the woman (...) to make money in the parking meter. The moment I walked back to the houseI was suddenly grabbed from behind. I felt how an arm was wrapped around my neck with more than slight force, so that I was held in a sort of hold. (...) I was very shocked and the neck clamp was so strong that I could barely breathe and move. At the same time, I felt how with more than slight force, with clear intent to hurt me, I was punched more than once with a hand clenched at my back, level with my kidneys. (...) I cannot remember how often this happened. But it was in succession (...). Then the attacker (...) released me. Whereupon I fell over and ended up on the sidewalk. The moment I lay defenseless on the floor I got two hard kicks in my back, causing me to shrink in pain. Then I was also kicked hard and deliberately against my right knee. (...) In the meantime I heard my attacker, whom I now recognized as the ex of my girlfriend, in Egyptian Arabic, a language that I also speak in word and writing, yelling at me like a madman. For example, he shouted: "You've been in my bed all night and my wife has been fucking." (...) At that time this man said to me in Egyptian Arabic: "I filmed you last night when you were smoking a cigarette on the balcony." I also understood that he was the night before "You've been in my bed all night and my wife has been fucking." (...) At that time this man said to me in Egyptian Arabic: "I filmed you last night when you were smoking a cigarette on the balcony." I also understood that he was the night before "You've been in my bed all night and my wife has been fucking." (...) At that time this man said to me in Egyptian Arabic: "I filmed you last night when you were smoking a cigarette on the balcony." I also understood that he was the night beforehouse of my girlfriend posted. (...) "


2.7
In a medical statement addressed to the police on 25 March 2019, X's general practitioner, following an assessment on that day, made a provisional diagnosis: “contusion of the back, contusion of the knee and kidney contamination with hematuria. X-ray examination of the spine will follow. "


2.8
On March 28, 2019, the woman again reported a threat reportdone. The official report states, among other things: “Today Thursday 28 March 2019 at around 4 p.m. I was at the swimming pool because my daughter had swimming lessons. X came with us because I don't dare go alone for fear of the man. (...) I saw the man walk out of the pool exit and approached X and me. I saw the man walking towards me with quick steps and standing between X and me. (…) The man put his hand in the inside pocket of his jacket. I panicked because I was afraid that the man had a knife in his coat. the man has called to me for two weeks that he has a knife and that he will kill me and X with this. (…) I heard the man shout at me: “You are a whore! You are the daughter of a whore.! I brought a knife! That man took my wife away! ”(…)I heard the man was also yelling at X. I heard the man shout at X and scold him in Egyptian for “You are a thief and a crook. You stole my wife and destroyed my family. You are gay! ”(…) I kept hearing the man shout:“ I have a knife with me! I have a knife with me! "


2.9
X was questioned as a victim by the police on 28 March 2019 about the incident at the swimming pool, in which he stated that he was reporting a man's threat . The official report of interrogation states, among other things, the following: "I heard that he (court: the man) said to the woman in the Arabic, Egyptian language:" You whore I kill you, I kill you completely. " Then he also told me in Arabic that he would kill me completely.

I saw the man hiding his right hand under his jacket. I didn't see what he had in his hand. I did n't trust it and grabbed my cell phone to call 112.

When I did this, I heard the man say, in Arabic: "Grab your phone to call the police. I'll finish you before the police come here. "

I took a few steps back and so did the woman. I then saw that the man had a large knife in his right hand. I saw that the blade of the knife was approximately (10) ten cm. I saw that the man had the knife in his hands so that everyone could see it. (...)

I saw that the man was searched but the knife was not found. (...)

I saw that the police later searched the car but had not found a knife there either. I suspect the man has thrown the knife somewhere. "


2.10
By letter of 30 March 2019, the public prosecutor informed the man that he would not be prosecuted for the incident at the swimming pool. The reason given is that, in the opinion of the public prosecutor, there is insufficient evidence.


2.11
On April 29, 2019, the man reported stalking by the woman and X. The report of the declaration states, among other things: "Since the woman has had a new boyfriend (...) which I will now call" X ", the relationship between the woman and me has become poor. (...) Since the arrival of X, I am no longer allowed to see my daughter the minor . (...) Also since the arrival of X reports have been made by the woman to the police, in which she accused me of mistreatment of X and that I insult and threaten the woman . She also always informs the police that I am looking for her while this is not the case. (...) "


2.12
The man asked the Parent Child Team in Amsterdam to mediate. Meanwhile Youth Protection Region Amsterdam became involved in parties.


2.13
The man submitted a request to the Amsterdam District Court for the establishment of a contact arrangement with the minor . An oral hearing was held on 20 June 2019. The court has deferred the handling of the request for six months pending the steps that the parties will take in consultation with the assistance provided by Youth Protection Region Amsterdam regarding the division of care tasks. The court has established the agreements made between the parties about the care scheme as a provisional care scheme . This arrangement means, among other things, that the minor the man every Saturday from 12:30 to 19:30 and every Tuesday from 15.30 / 15.45 to 19.30, behold, the woman the minor to the residence address of the father at HVO brings and collects. In addition, the man may call the minor for 10 minutes every Thursday evening.


3 Review

3.1.
The preliminary relief judge has by judgment, enforceable in stock, insofar as currently relevant:

(i) the man is forbidden to go to and / or to be in the areas bounded by the following streets for one year after the judgment has been served:

Map 1: the a-street, the b-street, the c-street, the d-street, the canal, the walkway along the water to the e-street, the Eastern side of the e-street and the in the an extension of the pedestrian walkway across the market square (park) to the a-street,

Plan 2: the f-street, the quay, the walking path in line with, and continuing up to and including the path,

everything including the aforementioned streets, all this as marked on the maps attached to the judgment;

(ii) the husband is forbidden to contact the wife personally, in writing, by telephone or otherwise for one year after the judgment has been served.

In the event of a violation of the aforementioned convictions, the preliminary relief judge has imposed a penalty of € 250 at a time up to a maximum of € 5,000.

The man raises three complaints against this decision and the underlying reasoning. The woman defends.


3.2
The Court of Appeal stated first of all that, because a contact ban and a street ban violate the right to communicate freely and to move freely, the allocation of such claims is only relevant if there are highly plausible facts and circumstances that justify such an infringement.


3.3
In essence, the complaints amount to the fact that there is no justification for the aforementioned infringements. In complaint 1, the man raises the point that the judge in interlocutory proceedings has wrongly considered his statement about the event at the office of the woman's lawyer to be unbelievable. According to the man, the woman asked him to go to the office of her attorney to a care arrangement between him and the minor fix to and there was no question that he chased her.

Grief 2 is directed against the consideration of the preliminary relief judge that, since the facts in some parts support the assertions of the woman, there is no reason to doubt the rest of her statements and those of her partner. The man disputes, as the court understands, that the woman's theses are confirmed by the facts. It has not been established that the man threatened or insulted the woman at the swimming pool . The man points to the fact that he has received notice that he will not be prosecuted, because there is insufficient evidence and that the wife and her boyfriend explain differently about this incident. The husband also points to inconsistencies in the declaration of the wife's partner.

Finally, in complaint 3, the man argues that, contrary to what the judge in preliminary relief has considered, direct contact between the parties with regard to matters concerning the minor is necessary. The parties jointly have authority over the minor , so that consultation is necessary. Both the contact and the street prohibition stand in the way of the assistance provided by Youth Protection : as a result, it is not possible to work on improving communication between parties, while guiding the interaction with the Parent Child Team is also not possible, because this team has its office in the restricted area.


3.4
The wife has argued that the husband has been with her since divorceharasses in 2016 and has followed her everywhere since March 2019, including her lawyer. She has contacted the police several times when the man was chasing her, but not every report is made up of an official report. The fact that the statements made by the woman and her partner about the incident at the swimming pool differ from each other does not alter the fact that her friend's statements confirm that the man regularly takes a very threatening and violent attitude towards the woman. The difference between the explanations is because the woman was completely panicked and paralyzed by fear. Furthermore, there is indeed agreement between the declaration of her partner and the injuries included in the statement of the general practitioner.

Because of the man's behavior, parties are currently unable to jointly implement parenthood of the minor , which means that assistance is needed. However, this is no reason to lift the street and contact ban . In addition, the woman informed Youth Protection that she is willing to participate in parenting mediation and is prepared to communicate with the man about the relationship between him and the minor via a separate e-mail address created for this purpose.

Both the street and the contact prohibition must be maintained, because otherwise the safety of women is not guaranteed.


3.5
Although it is clear that the relationship between the parties has been disrupted from March 2019 onwards, it is not sufficiently plausible in the opinion of the Court of Appeal that the man has thereby behaved in such a way that a street and contact ban are appropriate. The parties each have their own lecture about the man's visit to the woman's lawyer 'office. None of these lectures are supported by, for example, statements from third parties. In the context of these interim injunction proceedings there is no place to investigate who is right.

In addition, given the dismissal by the Public Prosecution Service of the declaration regarding the swimming pool incident, the man 's threat has also become insufficiently plausible. The Court also points out that the declarations of the woman and her partner were all made in March 2019. That the man has harassed the woman before or after, has not yet become plausible. At the hearing, the man pointed out that the parties regularly contacted each other via WhatsApp before March 2019, and he showed a WhatsApp message from the woman, which in the opinion of the court does not in any way show the poor understanding alleged by the woman. Admittedly, the woman argued that the message by the minor was sent, but given the time of dispatch in the middle of the night, as well as the age of the minor , the court does not consider this plausible.


3.6
The foregoing implies that the woman has not made it plausible, or at least insufficiently, on the basis of which facts and circumstances it must be assumed that there is a (future) threat that justifies a contact and street ban.


3.7
The court also takes the following into account. The man has submitted a letter from Jeugdbescherming that shows that the minor is currently trapped between her parents . The contact and street prohibition imposed in the first instance seriously complicates the assistance provided by Youth Protection . Youth protection considers it necessary for parents to learn to communicate at the parent level through assistance , but due to the contact ban , Youth Protection considersthat not feasible. At the hearing it became apparent that there has been no interaction between the man and the minor for some time and that it is intended that - at least for some time - guided interaction takes place. The nearest branch of the Parent Child Team, which can provide this guidance , is in the area covered by the restraining order. Although the woman has indicated that she is willing to cooperate in parenting mediation and the creation of an e-mail address for contact between parties about intercourseand that it will not thereby invoke the contact and street prohibition, the Court of Appeal considers it important that parties may, for example, also have telephone contact. It is also in the interest of the minor that the contact between her and the man takes place in a familiar environment .

For that reason too, the Court of Appeal will set aside the contested judgment and still reject the woman's claims.


3.8
In view of the tense relationship between the parties, the Court of Appeal recommends that the parties, as long as the assistance is involved and they work to improve their communication , limit the contact between them to necessary contact about the minor . The man has already said at first instance that he will no longer be in the street where the woman lives and the court assumes that he will adhere to this commitment.


3.9
In view of the foregoing, the claim to suspend the enforceable declaration of enforcement of the contested judgment need not be considered.


3.10
The Court sees reason to compensate the costs of proceedings in first instance and on appeal because the parties are former spouses.


4 Decision
The court:

set aside the judgment, the appeal and the further injunction in summary proceedings:

rejects the progress made by women;

compensates for the costs of proceedings in both instances in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise demanded appeal.

This judgment was given by mrs. MC Schenkeveld, AR Sturhoofd and CMJ Peters and publicly pronounced by the role councilor on October 22, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3847