Content indication
Conviction attempted murder and co-perpetrating defamation . However, premeditation. Prison sentence for 9 years.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-09-04
Publication date
2019-09-05
Case number
23-002828-18
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
criminal law department

public prosecutor's office number: 23-002828-18

Date of judgment: 4 September 2019

Contradiction

Brief judgment of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal pointed to the appeal brought against the judgment of the Noord-Holland court of 2 August 2018 in the criminal case under public prosecutor's office number 15-860009-18 against

suspect ,

born in place of birth on date of birth 1940,

address: address,

currently in custody in Huis van Bewaring Zwolle in Zwolle.

Investigation of the case
This judgment was delivered following the investigation at the hearing on appeal of

August 21, 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422, second paragraph, of the Code

of Criminal Procedure, following the investigation at the hearing at first instance.

An appeal has been lodged on behalf of the suspect against the aforementioned judgment.

The Court of Appeal has taken cognizance of the advocate general's claim and of what has been put forward by the suspect and his counsel.

Indictment
In view of the changes permitted by the court in the first instance, the accused was charged with the following:

1. on or about 15 January 2018 in Heerhugowaard, at least in the Netherlands for the execution of the crime intended by the suspect to deliberately and intentionally robbed of life 1, with that purpose (and after calm deliberation and calm consultation),

- has gone (by bicycle) to the home of victim 1, in which he carried an air pressure gun / weapon and / or a knife, and / or

- (at a short distance from that victim 1) has an air pressure gun / air pressure weapon (re-loaded) and / or aimed at victim 1 and / or (subsequently) one or more times on / in the direction of the head and / or upper body, at least shot the body of that victim 1, and / or

- has stabbed victim 1 or more times with a knife in the chest and / or neck, at least the body of that victim 1,

while the execution of that proposed crime has not been completed;

2. in or around the period from 18 January 2018 to 01 February 2018 in Almere and / or in Elburg and / or in Alkmaar and / or in Broek op Langedijk, municipality of Langedijk, and / or in Noord-Scharwoude, municipality Langedijk, and / or in Heerhugowaard and / or in Alkmaar and / or in Haarlem and / or in Amsterdam, at least in the Netherlands, together and in association with another or others, at least only intentionally, by means of distribution of (a) writing (s), the honor and / or good name of victim 1 has been assaulted by one or more specific facts, with the apparent purpose of publicizing it, after all, the suspect and / or his co-perpetrator (s) with the aforementioned purpose (s) of writing (s) as attached to this indictment and forming part of it (including the sentences:

- The authorities are so bad for fathers that I am the only way out to shoot a lying narcissistic mother and ex-daughter-in-law. and / or

- From victim 1, she can also give name 2 his medication, which naturally goes wrong and is very dangerous in connection with his epilepsy and / or

- That we have to find out in the hospital that name 2 had never gotten any vegetables from his mother , because it was too much trouble to LEARN him to eat and that name 2 therefore suffered from severe anemia, none of the current assistance seems to care either . and / or

- To get name 3 out of the house, a play with incitement to violence must be performed. (...) victim 1 starts pulling his belly at name 2, which is very dangerous for name 2. (...) Meanwhile, victim 1 calls the police with the message that she has been abused by name 3 . name 4 and name 5 are present in this play and the parents of victim 1 who live 20 minutes by car are present within 1 minute. and / or

- name 4, you too have had a major influence on my choice to try and kill your mother . )

Scattered;

and / or

he in or around the period from 18 January 2018 to 1 February 2018 in Almere and / or in Elburg and / or in Alkmaar and / or in Broek op Langedijk, municipality of Langedijk, and / or in Noord-Scharwoude, municipality of Langedijk, and / or in Heerhugowaard and / or in Alkmaar and / or in Haarlem and / or in Amsterdam, at least in the Netherlands, together and in association with another or others, at least only intentionally, by means of distribution of (a) writing ( and), the honor and / or good name name 7 has been assaulted by reporting one or more specific facts, with the apparent purpose of publicizing it, after all, the suspect and / or his co-perpetrator (s) with the aforementioned purpose (s) of writing (s) as attached to this indictment and forming part of it (including the sentences:

- I would like to add that in the meantime I have clearly noticed that her mother's name 6 is the biggest troublemaker. In fact, she is the one who deserves the most to be killed. and / or

- To name 4, I want to say: Continue to lie and play with your mum and grandmother. Then you will probably also end up in the escort service. What do you mean escort service? Well your mother and grandmother worked in that too. From your mother we have her own statement from the court and about your grandmother we have various statements from third parties. So you are already inherited. )

Scattered.

Insofar as language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, the court will read them in an improved way. The suspect is therefore not harmed in the defense.

Verdict whose appeal

The judgment whose appeal will be set aside, because the court of appeal comes to a somewhat different statement of evidence and to a different punishment from the court. The court of appeal will also respond to the defenses lodged on appeal.

Discussion of evidence arguments
Fact 1

The lawyer has advocated acquittal of premeditated advice as charged under 1. To that end, he pointed out that the proof of premeditation is not sufficient merely to establish that, given the passage of time, the suspect had the opportunity to reflect on his intention, and that contraindications should be taken into account. He then argued that the suspect had acted in an instantaneous uplift of mind, namely in an intoxication of confusion that existed for a longer period, as a result of which he was unable to oversee the meaning and consequences of his actions. This intoxication was the result of the fight separationin which the son of the accused and the victim were involved and the fear of the life of his wife, who expressed suicidal thoughts, which arose among the suspect in that connection, the life of his son, who, in addition to suicidal thoughts, also expressed to the victim something and for the life of his grandson, for whom, due to his illness, good care is of vital importance and who eventually needs a kidney from the son of the suspect. It has been argued that the confusion and whirlwind of the suspect - referred to by the suspect himself as 'not in balance' at the hearing on appeal - appear from the statements of the suspect, his son and his wife, the witnesses on the spot and from the declaration of the declarant.

Fact 2

From what has been charged under 2, the lawyer requests that the accused be acquitted in full, on the basis of the following. With the actions of the suspect, namely sending handwritten letters to his son from detention, who could adjust and supplement them and use them by sending them to whom he deemed necessary, the final scope and content of the letter was not in the sphere of influence of the suspect. The suspect has laid the foundation, but has not continued the offense independently. In fact, another person has decided on the realization of the offense. In the absence of intensive cooperation or division of labor and in view of the limited role of the suspect, it cannot be said that the accused intends to (co-) commit defamation has existed.

The court considers as follows.

Fact 1

Prepared advice

The Court of Appeal stated first and foremost that it follows from the case law of the Supreme Court that it must be established for a proven statement of the constituent element that the suspect has been able to consider for some time the decision to be taken or the decision taken and that he has not acted in an instantaneous uplift of mind, so that he had the opportunity to reflect on the significance and consequences of his intended deed and to be aware of it. The question as to whether there is question of pre-prepared advice is a pre-eminent assessment and assessment of the circumstances of the specific case, in which the court must determine the weight of the instructionswho argue for or against the proven explanation of premeditated advice. The finding that the suspect had sufficient time to consider the decision to be taken or the decision taken constitutes an important objective indication , but it is not necessary to prevent the judge from giving more weight to contraindications. An example thereof may be given to the fact that the decision-making and implementation in sudden fiercedrift, that there is only a short period of time between decision and implementation or that the opportunity for deliberation only arises during the implementation of the decision. For example, certain circumstances (or a combination thereof) may ultimately lead the court to conclude that in the given case the suspect did not act with premeditation (cf. HR 7 January 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 16 ).

On the basis of the contents of the file and what was discussed at the hearing, the Court of Appeal determined the following factual course of events.

The suspect has stated that the idea of ​​killing his former daughter-in-law, victim 1, has grown slowly over the course of a few months and that he has decided to actually implement this idea one and a half to two weeks before his act. He also took into consideration that his son threatened to do something to victim 1, and his son, unlike the suspect himself, is still young and still has his future ahead of him. That is why the suspect decided that he (in his own words 'an old guy with many defects') would shoot victim 1. The suspect has stated that he assumed that he would go to jail for years if the attempted murder were successful, but that his son and his grandchild would then be reunited and build a life together.

To implement his intention, the suspect searched the internet for a firearmand because he could not get hold of it, he went looking for the strongest air pressure weapon available; a compressed air weapon. He purchased such a compressed air weapon and a compressed air bottle on 10 January 2018. He practiced with that weapon in his attic. In addition, he bought a knife a few days before his act with the intention of killing victim 1 if it would not be possible to shoot her. The suspect put the knife and the air pressure weapon and all other things he needed, such as a compressed air bottle and a set of fillets, in his camper and drove to his son in Broek op Langedijk on January 14, 2018. The next day, January 15, 2018, the suspect, with the weapons, was taken from Broek op Langedijk to the homecycled from victim 1 in Heerhugowaard. He knew what time victim 1 would be at home and waited for her in her garden. The moment he saw her, he immediately loaded through the air pressure weapon and shot at victim 1. The suspect focused on her head. He saw that victim 1 was hit in her head and tried to hit her again, but the weapon did not load.

victim 1 was running across the street at that moment and yelling at locals to let her in. The suspect went after victim 1 and he tried to shoot her again. victim 1 remained intact and a struggle arose between victim 1 and the suspect. During this struggle, the suspect took the knife from his jacket pocket and stuck victim 1 more than once, namely in her left arm, neck and chest. The suspect was overpowered by municipal workers who had approached the cry for help from victim 1. After being overpowered, the suspect said to the municipal workers: "It's a shame it didn't work." Victim 1 was admitted to the hospital as a matter of urgency, where as a shot injury it was found that one tooth was out of the lower jaw and that a bullet had remained stuck between two teeth on the mouth floor. If a stab injury was detected: a superficial stab injury in her neck on the left, a stab wound entirely through the forearm on the left and a stab wound on the anterior side of the thorax on the left, resulting in a hematopneumothorax for which a drain has been placed.

In the light of the above, it is evident that the suspect had the preconceived plan to rob victim 1 of life. On the basis of decisive considerations for him, the suspect came to that intention for some time before the execution of his attempt to murder victim 1. The suspect involved the meaning and consequences of his intended act in his considerations. Subsequently, although all time and opportunity existed for him - also during his bike ride from Broek op Langedijk to Heerhugowaard - he further considered that decision and further considered the meaning and consequences of his intended act and himself account for it, not to refrain from implementing his intention. The suspect has purposefully and step by step done everything that was necessary. The planning and organization by the suspect have even gone so far that he has not only practiced with the weapon he has purchased, but has given himself an alternative weapon with a knife, considering possible shortcomings in the execution of his intention, which knife he actually used when the weapon of his first choice did not produce the intended effect.

That the decision-making and the actions of the suspect in all fairness do not indicate the outcome of the thought process of a sensible person whose empathic capacities extend beyond his closest relatives and himself, gives some ground to the suspect's characterization of himself as being ' not in balance ', but does not stand in the way of proof of acting with premeditation. In addition, the Court of Appeal also took into account the content of the report of the psychologist name 9 of 22 March 2018 that was drawn up about the suspect , stating that at the time of the charge the suspect did not suffer from a morbid disorder or a defective development of his mental capacities. .

The Court of Appeal finds that the suspect had considered the meaning and the consequences of his intended act prior to the execution of his act and had actually taken account of this. That there would have been an immediate upward mood in which the accused would have acted has in no way been proven. Nor has it become plausible that there were other contraindications that prevented the adoption of premeditated advice. In view of the above, the defense is rejected.

Fact 2

Smaadschrift

On the basis of the file and what was discussed at the hearing, the Court of Appeal determined that the suspect wrote a letter by hand during his detention and sent it to his son, name 3. The suspect hereby told his son that he could adjust and complete the letter and do what is right with it, the suspect thinking that the counselors would be the first to receive the letter if his son sent the letter to others . The suspect has also confirmed that with the content of the letter as a broader social problem, he is the poor position of the father in a divorcewanted to raise. The son of the suspect has typed out the letter. The contents of the typed letter, according to the defendant almost the same as that of the handwritten original and supplies at the discretion of the court libel in respect of the informants Victim 1 and name 7, except that the accused therein honor deliberately and has assailed the good name of the complainants by blaming certain facts for the apparent purpose of publicizing them. The letter was sent to the lawyer of victim 1, to various authorities and to various neighbors of victim 1.

In view of the content and scope of the letter, the Court of Appeal assumes that the purpose of the suspect was, among other things, to draw widespread attention to the injustice done to fathers in combat divorce situations and the consequences that this may have. Partly on the basis of this, the Court of Appeal has come to the conclusion that the suspect, together with his co-perpetrator, intended to spread the letter in a wide circle, also via the national media mentioned on the mailing list accompanying the letter. The defenses that the suspect would have intentionally failed to disseminate or that his contribution to the facts is too small to be considered as co-perpetrators.

Proof of declaration
The Court of Appeal considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the accused committed the charges under 1 and 2, on the understanding that:

1. he on 15 January 2018 in Heerhugowaard for the execution of the crime intended by the accused to rob victim 1 intentionally and intentionally, with that intent and after calm deliberation and calm consultation:

- went by bicycle to the home of victim 1, carrying an air pressure weapon and a knife, and

- has (re) loaded an air pressure weapon at a short distance from victim 1 and aimed at victim 1 and shot several times in the direction of the head and body of victim 1, and;

- repeatedly stabbed victim 1 with a knife in the chest , neck, or at least the body of victim 1,

while the execution of that proposed crime has not been completed;

2. around the period from January 18, 2018 to February 1, 2018 in the Netherlands, together and in association with another, intentionally, by disseminating a document, assaulted the honor and good name of victim 1 by charges of certain facts, with the apparent purpose of publicizing it, after all, the accused and his co-perpetrator for the above purpose have circulated a document containing the sentences:

- The authorities are so bad for fathers that I am the only way out to shoot a lying narcissistic mother and ex-daughter-in-law. and;

- From victim 1, she can also give name 2 his medication, which naturally goes wrong and is very dangerous in connection with his epilepsy and;

- That we have to find out in the hospital that name 2 had never gotten any vegetables from his mother , because it was too much trouble to LEARN him to eat and that name 2 therefore suffered from severe anemia, none of the current assistance seems to care either . and;

- To get name 3 out of the house, a play with incitement to violence must be performed. (...) victim 1 starts pulling his belly at name 2, which is very dangerous for name 2. (...) Meanwhile, victim 1 calls the police with the message that she has been abused by name 3 . name 4 and name 5 are present in this play and the parents of victim 1 who live 20 minutes by car are present within 1 minute. ;

and

around the period from January 18, 2018 to February 1, 2018 in the Netherlands, together and in association with another, intentionally, by disseminating a writing, assaulted the honor and good name of name 7 by charges of one or more more specific facts, with the apparent purpose of publicizing them, after all, the accused and his co-perpetrator with the aforementioned purpose have circulated a document containing the sentences:

- To name 4, I want to say: Continue to lie and play with your mum and grandmother. Then you will probably also end up in the escort service. What do you mean escort service? Well your mother and grandmother worked in that too. From your mother we have her own statement from the court and about your grandmother we have various statements from third parties. So you are already inherited.

What has been charged more or differently under 1 and 2 has not been proven. The suspect must be acquitted of this.

The proven evidence is based on the facts and circumstances that are contained in the means of evidence, such as these will be included in the supplement to this judgment after the possible appeal in cassation.

Punishability of the proven
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the punishability of the proven proven under 1 and 2, so that this is punishable.

The certified under 1 provides:

attempted homicide.

The certified proven under 2 yields:

co-perpetration of defamation , committed several times.

Punishability of the suspect
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the suspect's punishability with regard to the proven proven under 1 and 2, so that the suspect is punishable.

Imposition of penalties and measures
The Noord-Holland District Court sentenced the accused to the sentence proven at first instance to a prison term of 7 years, with deduction of the custody judgment.

The Advocate General has requested that the accused for the charges charged will be sentenced to 9 years in prison, after deduction of the pre-trial detention.

On appeal, the Court of Appeal determined the penalties and measures to be imposed on the basis of the seriousness of the facts and the circumstances in which they were committed and in view of the person of the suspect. The Court of Appeal in particular took the following into consideration.

The suspect was guilty of an attempt to murder his former daughter-in-law victim 1 in the manner described above. He has awaited his victim with the heaviest air pressure weapon for him in her own garden and has shot her in the head, among other things. In a subsequent struggle, the suspect inflicted various knife stitches on the perilous places of the victim. All this took place in broad daylight on the street in a residential area. Victim 1 literally had to fight for her life and is lucky that she survived the attack of the suspect. The intervention of municipal employees who happened to be in the neighborhood seems to have been of decisive importance. These municipal employees overpowered the suspect.chestand injured her lung, for which she had to be treated in the hospital. Victim 1 also suffered damage to her teeth due to a bullet that landed in her mouth after it had pierced her lip. With his actions, the suspect has grossly infringed the physical integrity of the victim 1. It must have been a nightmare scenario for her that, in a place where she should be able to feel safe, her garden / living environment was unexpectedly attacked with weapons. The experience is all the more shocking now that she has to live with the idea that the suspect not only wanted her to die, but also that he had taken steps with planned precision to achieve this himself.

The victim's life has changed radically now that she has had to live from the incident that took place in January 2018 with the penetrating memory of it and the psychological and physical consequences thereof. The suspect closed his eyes to all of this at the time. victim 1 is the mother of four minor children and the actions of the suspect could have led - and were aimed at - to have these four children taken away from their mother . Needless to say, offenses of this caliber can only be responded to by imposing a punishment of the toughest kind, namely a long unconditional prison sentence.

In addition, the suspect was guilty of co- committing defamation directed against this ex-daughter-in-law and her mother . By means of an extensive letter with disgraceful texts - in which the suspect appears to have also attempted to justify the attempted murder attempted by him - the suspect deliberately tried to put them in a bad light, including with aid agencies. In addition, the suspect did not relieve the still young children of victim 1 in an unpleasant way .

The court of appeal also considered the person of the suspect. In that context, the Court has considered:

the Judicial Documentation Extract of 9 August 2019 in the name of the suspect, which shows that the suspect has not been convicted before;
an information report on 27 February 2018 concerning name of the suspect, probation worker at Probation Netherlands;
the aforementioned psychological Pro Justitia report of 22 March 2018, prepared by psychologist name 9. The Court of Appeal takes the substantiated conclusion that fact 1 can be fully attributed to the suspect and makes it his own.
At the trial, the suspect stated that he was afraid of losing his wife and son, and by extension his grandson name 2. Filled with frustration and intense emotions , he couldn't talk to anyone about this. The suspect has indicated that he is driven by these circumstances to his terrible act. He also took his own old age into consideration, because as an old man he does not have much future ahead of him.

The court does not see a criminalizing factor in these circumstances outlined by the suspect, now that these provide some insight into the motives of the suspect, who may have experienced a difficult period in his life, but in which, by objective standards, there is no way of Justification can be found for his proven actions. The age of the suspect is not a criminal offense either, precisely because he has seen his advanced age as instrumental in the context of his deliberate consideration that he was the one who had to commit the offense.

All things considered, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that a custodial sentence as imposed by the court does not do justice to the seriousness of the fact and the thoughtful nature thereof. The Court agrees with the Advocate General that a prison sentence of nine years should be imposed. It has been decided in the foregoing that what has been put forward by the lawyer with regard to the punishment (measure) and the personal circumstances of the suspect, in particular in view of the seriousness of the facts, in particular fact 1, is not substantiated. to impose a lower penalty.

Batter
The object seized and not yet returned - namely a cable tie - belongs to the suspect. Now that the suspect stated at the hearing in the first instance that he was carrying the cable tie with him at the time of committing what has been proven under 1 because it might have been useful to him in carrying out the proven, the object is forfeited.

Claim of the injured party victim 1
The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 18,161.20, consisting of the following damage items: a) broken and bloody clothing and footwear € 300.00

b) purchase and delivery security camera € 2,094.99

c) fence materials € 357.92

d) replaced locks € 120.00

e) hospital parking costs during hospitalization € 23.10 f) legal costs procedure residence name 2 € 196.00 g) emergency repair of teeth € 213.89

h) quote dentist manufacture crown € 1,055.30

i) dentist manufacture and place implant € 3,800.00 (the offer of € 4,500 must be deducted from the injured party

receive compensation of € 450.00 from its insurer, while subsequently by the

injured party this claim at the hearing in first instance has been reduced by

€ 250.00).

The material damage claimed therefore amounts to a total of € 8,161.20.

In addition, non-material damage has been claimed up to an amount of € 10,000.00.

Damage items h) and i) have been further substantiated with a letter from the injured party's dentist of 16 August 2019, including that it was treated on 25 June 2019, whereby a gum correction was carried out and a socket seal, which was applied to 15 October 2019 comes for the implantation of an implant in the lower jaw and that the supra structure can be started after 3 months.

The claim has been assigned in the judgment for which an appeal was made to an amount of € 17,822.10, consisting of an amount of € 7,822.10 for material damage and an amount of € 10,000.00 for non-material damage.

The court has declared the injured party inadmissible in its claim with regard to the cost items d) and f), because in the opinion of the court these cost items do not result directly from the evidence stated under 1.

The injured party has re-joined on appeal for the amount of the original claim, including the reduction of the dental costs and the reimbursement of the insurance and the replacement costs of the locks. Regarding the costs of the legal proceedings regarding the name 2 's place of residence , the lawyer of the injured party has referred to the judgment of the court of appeal.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim for compensation be granted in accordance with the court's judgment, plus the statutory interest and the imposition of the compensation measure as referred to in Article 36f of the Criminal Code .
The following has been put forward on behalf of the suspect.

i. The injured party must be declared inadmissible in the cost items a), h)

and i) because these costs are insufficiently substantiated.

The injured party must be declared inadmissible in the cost items b) up to and including d) due to the lack of a causal link between the occurrence of the damage and the proven fact.

The suspect refers to the opinion of the court of appeal regarding cost item g).

The amount of non-material damage to be allotted must be moderated due to the summary substantiation of the claim.

Counsel did not comment on the cost items e) and f).

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the proven actions of the suspect up to an amount of € 7,942.10 in material damage the damage items a) to d) and g) up to and including i). These claims are sufficiently substantiated. The suspect is obliged to compensate that damage so that the claim will be awarded up to that amount.

It should also be noted that with regard to item a), the file (including the photos in) shows that the damage to the clothing is sufficient, while the court of appeal appears to be far from excessive, partly in view of the appendix to the addition form .

In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the damage claimed under items b) up to and including d) also results directly from the fact stated under 1. The injured party was attacked in her backyard, lost her house key in that attack and immediately wanted to take security measures. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, there is a causal link and the fact that the suspect is detained does not alter this, nor does the fact that the house key of the injured person has not been found with the suspect.

Damage claims e) and f) are not eligible for compensation. The damage item e) relates to parking costs incurred by the parents of the injured party, which were therefore not borne by the injured party. With regard to the damage item f), the court of appeal rules on the same grounds as the court, whose considerations on this point should be considered here and repeated here, that there is no direct damage. To that extent, the injured party cannot therefore be received in the claim.

In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the claims h) and i) do not concern, as suggested by the counsel , two solutions to the same problem, but - partly as evidenced by the explanation given by the injured party - concern the costs involved with successive necessary treatments that the injured party must undergo to repair the damage caused to her teeth by the suspect.

It has also been established that the injured party has directly suffered non-material damage as a result of the proven behavior of the suspect. The Court of Appeal will estimate the extent of the non-material damage on the basis of the provisions of Article 6: 106 of the Dutch Civil Code according to standards of fairness at € 10,000.00. In particular, given the nature and seriousness of the actions of the suspect, the consequences of this for the injured party - including hospitalization for multiple stab wounds and lung injury, scars on her body, serious damage to her body. the sense of security and the fact that she is still being treated by a dentist to repair the damage to her teeth, as well as the compensation awarded by judges in similar cases.

The amount to be allocated will - as claimed - be increased by the statutory interest from the occurrence of the damage. In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

Claim of the injured party name 7
The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 500.00 in non-material damage. The claim is fully assigned in the judgment for which the appeal was made. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has concluded that the claim of the injured party must be granted in full and that compensation for damages must be imposed in that regard.

On behalf of the suspect it has been primarily argued that the suspect is not criminally liable for the event giving rise to the damage and for that reason the claim for immaterial compensation must be rejected, or that the injured party must be declared inadmissible in its claim. In the alternative, the lawyer took the position that, in view of the insufficient substantiation, the claim must be moderated.

The investigation at the hearing has sufficiently demonstrated that the injured party suffered direct immaterial damage as a result of the proven act of the accused under 2. The Court of Appeal will estimate the extent of the non-material damage on the basis of the provisions of Article 6: 106 of the Dutch Civil Code according to standards of fairness at € 500.00. Particular attention was paid to the compensation awarded by judges in comparable cases.

The amount to be allocated will be jointly and severally attributed - as claimed - to the statutory interest from the occurrence of the damage. In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

Applicable legal requirements
The penalties and measures to be imposed are based on Articles 33, 33a, 36f, 45, 47, 57, 261 and 289 of the Criminal Code .

These legal regulations are applied as applicable at the time of the proven.

DECISION
The court:

Destroys the judgment that appeals and does justice again:

Declares, as considered above, proven that the suspect committed the charges under 1 and 2.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares the proven punishable under 1 and 2, qualifies as aforementioned and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for 9 (nine) years .

Recommends that the time taken by the accused before the implementation of that decision only in Article 27, paragraph, or Article 27a of the Code of Criminal will be referred to as pre-trial detention was spent in the execution of the sentence of imprisonment reduced , in so far as that time has not already been deducted from another penalty.

Explains the confiscated object that has not yet been returned, namely:

cable tie, no. 846785.

Claim of the injured party victim 1

Allows the claim for compensation from the injured party victim 1 in respect of the proven under 1 to the amount of € 17,942.10 (seventeen thousand nine hundred forty-two euros and ten cents) consisting of € 7,942.10 (seven thousand nine hundred forty-two euros and ten cents) material damage and € 10,000 (ten thousand euros) of non-material damage, plus the statutory interest from the commencement dates below until the date of payment .

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the suspect the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim named victim 1, an amount of € 17,942.10 (seventeen thousand nine hundred forty-two euros and ten cents) consisting of € 7,942.10 (seven thousand nine hundred forty-two euros and ten cents) property damage and € 10,000.00 (ten thousand euros) immaterial damage , in the absence of payment and redress replaced by 124 (one hundred and twenty four) days of detention , plus the statutory interest from the following state starting dates up to the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of such detention does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the starting date of the statutory interest for the material damage on:

January 15, 2018 on an amount of € 300.00 for the reimbursement of clothing;
January 17, 2018 on an amount of € 120.00 for replaced locks;
January 30, 2018 on an amount of € 2,094.99 with regard to the installation of the security camera;
February 14, 2018 on an amount of € 213.89 for emergency repairs to the teeth;
March 7, 2018 on an amount of € 357.92 for materials (raising) fence;
4 September 2019 on an amount of € 4,855.30 in respect of dental costs;
and of the non-material damage on January 15, 2018.

Claim of the injured party name 7

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party name 7 in respect of the proven proven under 2 to the amount of € 500.00 (five hundred euros) in respect of immaterial damage , for which the defendant is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount with the co-perpetrator plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named name 7, an amount of € 500.00 (five hundred euros) as compensation for non-material damage , in respect of the proven under 2 to replace the lack of payment and redress by 10 (ten) days in custody , plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be mentioned below until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of such custody is subject to the obligation of compensation to the State for damages. for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator has met one of the two payment obligations, the other is canceled.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 1 February 2018 .

This judgment was delivered by the multiple criminal chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal, which included FMD Aardema, PFE Geerlings and R. Kuiper, in the presence of

S. Pesch, Registrar, and was pronounced at the public hearing of this court of law

September 4, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3258