Content indication
Dealing . handling of daughter comes out of the ground by fear mother and denial of that fear by father . Daughter does not know who her father is. So far nothing has helped. Hof proceeds to appoint a special liquidator with a psychological background.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-14
Publication date
2019-02-20
Case number
200.244.248 / 01
Procedure
Interim decision
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court of appeal 200.244.248 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 19/107310 / FA RK 14-2709)

decision of 14 February 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: formerly CF Roza in Zwolle,

currently SM Wolff in Zwolle,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: H. Diepenveen in Meppel.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decisions of the Court of the Northern Netherlands, location Assen, of 28 January 2015, 22 March 2017 and 16 May 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s) of the father , received on 13 August 2018;

- the defense;

- a journal report from Mr Roza of 22 August 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr. Roza of September 19, 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr. Roza of 24 November 2018 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 17 December 2018. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. No one was present on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board ), summoned as part of its advisory role.

3. The facts


3.1
The parties are the parents of the minor , born in 2010 in B (hereafter the minor ). The father recognized the minor on November 13, 2012 with substitute permission from the judge. The mother exercises authority over the minor alone.


3.2
By order of 8 May 2013, the court rejected, insofar as relevant here, the father 's request for an access arrangement between him and the minor and determined that the mother must inform the father in writing every three months about the minor 's developments. and must send him recent photos every six months.


3.3
On 15 October 2014, the father again requested that an access arrangement be established between him and the minor .


3.4
By decision of 28 January 2015, the court ordered the council to refer the parties to the C for parent meetings and, after informing the minor about the status , to initiate the relationship between her and the father . This process should not start before 1 May 2015 to give the mother some time to work on herself and her fears. In addition, the father was given to give mother a rest and not to contact her. The court also requested the council to report after the process and to advise on the requested personaccess arrangement .


3.5
The final report of D of 17 February 2016 states that D has returned the order to the court. After separate conversations with each of the parents and a joint conversation in which the mother was assisted by her psychologist , the mother canceled a follow-up appointment, with the aim of making concrete arrangements for assisted intercourse , because they said they were not able to go through the process. can function more normally. D has concluded that the mother 's fear reigns and has a major influence on her parenthood . This fear affects her in the care of the minor andprevents her from making room for the other parent in the minor .


3.6
Subsequently, the council conducted an investigation , the results of which were laid down in the report of 26 October 2016. The council concluded that there are no contra-indications for establishing contact between the minor and the father . The mother 's fears are not based on (substantiated) facts. The mother recognizes that the minor is entitled to contact the father . There are no further child problems with the minor . With regard to the father 's request for the adoption of aaccess regulation advises the council to instruct the certified institution to make an arrangement that is in line with the interests of the minor .


3.7
Based on the investigation , the Council came to the conclusion that there was a serious development threat from the minor . The Council has therefore decided to submit a request for supervision of the minor . The request to place the minor under supervision was rejected by decision of 7 December 2016.


3.8
By order of 22 March 2017, the court referred the parties to the counseling procedure for assisted access arrangements at D, whereby the implementation of the assisted contacts will take place under the direction of the employees of D. In this regard, the court pointed to the best efforts obligation placed on both parents to make the process at D succeed.


3.9
In the initial letter of D of August 31, 2017, agreements are laid down about the treatment phase consisting of system discussions aimed at achieving contact between the minor and the father in a way that is appropriate for the minor . It is also included that work is being done on a balance for mother in learning to deal with doubt and tension regarding contact recovery between father and daughter. The final letter of 5 January 2018 states that D cannot comply with the court's order. The mother can be the minor insufficient reassurance in the fact that she has nothing to fear from the father and that makes the feasibility of the contact recovery between the minor and the father impossible in the current context.


3.10
By letter of 30 January 2018, the Council advised that the parties be referred to forensic mediation. The council is concerned about the identity development of the minor because she has no contact with her father and considers that a more mandatory framework is needed to allow parents to talk to each other.


3.11
The court, by order of May 16, 2018 the request of the father to a visitation establish between him and the minor dismissed.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
There is a dispute between the parties about the (interpretation of) the father 's right to have contact with the minor .


4.2
The father appealed against the contested decision with one complaint. This complaint seeks to fully address the dispute on appeal. The father requests that the decision of 16 May 2018 be annulled and that an access arrangement be established between him and the minor and, with the increase of his request from the first instance, (officially) issue a supervision order.


4.3
The mother puts forward a defense and asks the father to declare it inadmissible in the appeal that he has lodged, or at least to reject this appeal.


4.4
With regard to the request of the father on appeal to declare officially a custodial order, the court has already stated at the hearing that the court is not competent to do so, so that the request would not be processed. The court refers to Article 1: 255 paragraph 2 and paragraph 5 DCC which is included in the two special cases, the court officially the supervision order can pronounce. None of these cases occurs here.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Section 1: 377a (1) of the Dutch Civil Code, a child has the right to associate with his parents and those who are in close personal relationship with him. Pursuant to the second paragraph, the court, in short, at the request of the parents or one of them rules governing the rights of fixed or denied the right to association .

Under Article 1: 247 (3) of the Dutch Civil Code, the parent charged with custody is under an obligation to promote the development of his child 's ties with the other parent (HR 28 March 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 748 ).


5.2
If the court deems the grounds that the parent charged with custody does not cooperate with the establishment or implementation of a visitation arrangement , he should take all appropriate measures in the given case to shorten the person charged with custody. to encourage the parent to cooperate in this. An active attitude may be required of the judge all the more if the refusal of the parent charged with custody is based on fewer - or even none - good and sufficiently plausible grounds (HR January 17, 2014,ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 91 ).


5.3
Any rejection of a request to establish an access arrangement and any decision in which the association is denied is temporary, in the sense that the parent is rejected whose application in the event of changes in circumstances and in any case after one year again can go to court to have an access arrangement established.


5.4
The parents' relationship ended during the mother 's pregnancy . The father was present at the birth of the minor and also after the birth there were some contacts between the father and the minor . Since December 2011, the father has no longer played a role in the life of the minor . the minor does not know her father . The father only knows the minor from information that the motherprovided him quarterly and the half-yearly recent photos that it sends, in order to implement the information obligation imposed by the court in 2013 .


5.5
Both in the proceedings leading to the decision of May 8, 2013 as the current procedure has been attempted several times through mediation and counseling programs the communication improve between the parties and restoring mutual confidence to finally arrive at restoring contact between the father and the minor and, if possible, (assisted) contact between the two. Obstacles in these processes have always been on the one hand the feelings of fear of the mother towards the father and on the other hand the denial by the father that there is reason for this and his lack of recognition of these fears.


5.6
In the (second) reference to D in its decision of 22 March 2017, the court considered that there were insufficient grounds (as referred to in Article 1: 377a paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code) to deny contact between the minor and the father , with which judgment has joined the court at the conclusion of the Board in its report dated October 26, 2016 that there are no contraindications for intercourse . In this regard, the court explicitly pointed to the (concrete) effort obligation placed on both parents to make the process at D succeed. In that context, the father was expressly requested to take a step to increase the confidence of therestore mother by taking her seriously in her fears and, in consultation with her and D, make concrete agreements about what he can do to restore confidence, for example by following aggression-regulation training.


5.7
From the final letter of 5 January 2018 from D, it emerges that the father has reported to GGZ with a request for aggression-regulation training, but that GGZ did not consider training necessary. Furthermore, it appears that after her therapy the mother has found a balance again to deal with her history and that she is a stable mother again . However, the mother indicates that contact with the father will again cause stress for the minor and her personally. The conversation with the minor has shown an enormous tension. It is clear that her image of the father is negative and inspires her great fear. The possibility of being able to adjust that image by seeing the father also caused great resistance. D has considered the role of the mother in restoring contact between the father and the minor to be crucial. the minor will only dare to make contact recovery based on her mother 's guidance . She has felt her mother's fear of the father all her life, so her resistance to the father makes sense. The mothercan not sufficiently reassure the minor in the fact that she has nothing to fear from the father . D sees this as a danger to the personality development of the minor .


5.8
At the hearing, the Court of Appeal stated that it regretted that the father did not want to respond to the proposal for a joint conversation between parents within the process at D , which is a step that D deemed essential within the process of achieving contact recovery . As a result, the process at D ended prematurely. The resulting delay is not in the best interests of the minor . Subsequently, the Court of Appeal again spoke with the parties about the (im) possibilities of achieving contact recovery between the father and the minor and, prior to D's view, contact recovery between theparents themselves. The Court of Appeal has emphasized that the final letter from D of 5 January 2018 shows that the parents can take away the fear of the minor together and that contact recovery between the parents is a first step in this. Not only can this be an impetus for improving mutual communication and understanding, but more particularly the mother shows the minor and feels that she has faith in the father and that the minor has nothing to fear from the father. In this way space can then be created for contact recovery between the father and the minor .


5.9
With parties in this context, among others discussed the possibilities a special guardian convert to a psychological background to them and the minor to in this guide .


5.10
Pursuant to Article 1: 250 of the Civil Code (BW), the judge before whom a case is pending can officially appoint a special liquidator to represent (the interests of) a minor , both in and out of court. The court may make this appointment pass when in matters relating to the care and upbringing of the minor interests of the authority responsible parents are in conflict with those of the minor , and the appointment in the interest of the minor is deemed necessary, taking taking into account the nature of the conflict of interest.


5.11
Given the circumstances, the Court of Appeal has informed the parties that they and the minor could benefit from the appointment of a special guardian for the minor . The guardian ad litem can map out what is needed to take further steps towards contact recovery and try to play a mediating role in it. The Court of Appeal expresses the hope that parties under the supervision of this guardian ad litem will be able to improve their mutual communication and to restore mutual trust sufficiently, so that an untaxed contact between the father and theminor becomes possible. In addition, sufficient attention must be paid to what (also) the minor needs for contact recovery .


5.12
The parents have each declared that they are open to this and have agreed to the appointment of a guardian ad litem .


5.13
Mrs. E, with his office in F, has been prepared to act as a special liquidator in these proceedings and will be appointed by the court for this purpose. This special liquidator was proposed by the mother during the oral hearing , albeit that she was considering forensic mediation. No objections to the proposed person were raised from the father 's side . In view of this, and in view of the fact that the special bankruptcy trustee to be appointed has a psychological background, as was discussed at the hearing and deemed desirable, the Court of Appeal assumes that neither party objects to the appointment of said E asspecial liquidator .


5.14
The court requests the guardian ad litem in its work to observe the Guidance on working method and report on guardian receipts pursuant to Article 1: 250 of the Dutch Civil Code, to be consulted via www.rechtspraak.nl, and therefore also the (primary) mediating role of the guardian ad litem on to engage (whereby attempts are made to resolve the dispute amicably through conversations with the parents and the minor ). In addition, the court considers it important that the guardian ad litem ensures that the interests of the minor are highlighted as well as possible and that she feels heard. The court requests the guardian ad litemin this regard, to investigate how the minor is doing, what the consequences are for her of (lack of) contact recovery between her and the father now and in the (near) future, what her opinion is about this contact recovery and what she needs for this from both her father and mother . The court of appeal also requests the guardian ad litem if this is possible and this is considered to be in the best interests of the minor to bring about contact recovery . The court requests the guardian ad litemfinally, in view of the requests before the court, in the interest of the minor , to advise which decision the court must take on the access arrangements between her and the father .
5.15
The court will request the guardian ad litem to send its report to the court before 15 May 2019. Parties will be given the opportunity to give their written response to the report within two weeks of sending this report by the registrar. In principle, the case will then be settled in writing on the documents, unless the Court of Appeal deems a further oral hearing appropriate, either at the reasoned request of (one of) parties or ex officio. In the case of a further oral hearing, the court will also call on the guardian ad litem to come to that oral hearing.
5.16
The court requests the father 's lawyer to make (a copy of) the procedural documents available to the guardian ad litem as soon as possible, but no later than within two weeks after the date of this decision .


5.17
In view of the complexity of the present case and the scope of the activities to be performed by the guardian ad litem, the court of appeal will determine that, insofar as based on an addition to be obtained, a lower amount than € 2,000 (including disbursements and sales tax) to the the bankruptcy trustee is reimbursed, the surplus, up to a maximum amount of € 2,000 (including disbursements and turnover tax), will be borne by the government. The guardian ad litem in that case to be declared on the basis of a time accounting and based on an hourly rate (or a portion thereof) from € 85, - per hour, excluding VAT.
5.18
If an addition is granted for the activities of the guardian ad litem, the Court of Appeal assumes that any travel costs incurred by the guardian ad litem will also be eligible for reimbursement.


5.19
On the basis of the above, the court will decide as to report. 4. The decision

The court:

appoints as guardian ad litem over the minor the minor , born in 2010 in B:

Mrs. E ,

a street 1,

F

Telephone number: 00000

Email address: info @ G .nl,

to look after the interests of the minor in this procedure ;

instructs the guardian ad litem to report to the court of appeal before 15 May 2019, or at least before 15 May 2019, to provide written notification of the progress of its activities;

determines that the clerk of this court will send a copy of the report of the guardian ad litem to the parties and the council ;

determines that the parties can respond in writing up to two weeks after the report of the guardian ad litem at the latest , after which the court will decide on the further progress of the case;

determines that the father 's lawyer will make (a copy of) the procedural documents available to the guardian ad litem as soon as possible, but no later than within two weeks after the date of this decision ;

determines that the costs of the guardian ad litem will be borne by the State Treasury up to a maximum amount of € 2,000, including disbursements and turnover tax, all this with due observance of the provisions of paragraph 5.17 above;
keeps every further decision.

This decision was made by EBEM Rikaart-Gerard, IA Vermeulen and JL Roubos, assisted by J. Robben as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 14 February 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 1536