Content indication
Parents' joint authority is maintained. The father does not obstruct decisions for the benefit of the child and relocation plans of the mother give cause to maintain the authority of the father .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-06-11
Publication date
2019-07-03
Case number
200.250.236 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court of appeal 200.250.236 / 01

(case number court C / 19 / l18479 / FA RK 17-647)

decision of 11 June 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

M. Alta, Hoogeveen, lawyer,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: H. Meijerink in Nieuw-Amsterdam.


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Assen, of 5 September 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on November 22, 2018;

- the defense with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Alta of 29 November 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr. Alta of December 4, 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr. Alta of 2 January 2019 with production (s).


2.2
On 18 April 2019, the minor to be referred to below and the minor2 appeared, who was heard by the court in the absence of the parents and the council .


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 18 April 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. As part of his advisory role, Mrs C appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board ).


3 The facts

3.1
Parties are the parents of

- the minor1, born in 2003 (also referred to here as the minor1), and

- the minor2, born in 2007 (also to be mentioned here: the minor2).

The father has recognized the children .


3.2
By decision of 4 June 2008, the Assen District Court, to the extent relevant here, determined that from now on the parents will be jointly charged with custody of the minor1 and the minor2.


3.3
the minor2 has his main residence with the mother . the minor1 has lived with the grandparents mz since the summer of 2017 The father has no contact with the minor2; dealing with the minor1 .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The authority over the minor2 is in dispute between the parties .


4.2
To implement what was decided in the (interim) decision of 5 September 2017, the Council carried out an investigation into, among other things, the custody of the minor and the minor2 and contact recovery between him and the father . The council issued a council report on May 23, 2018.


4.3
The contested decision of 5 September 2018, in so far as it is relevant here, - in accordance with the advice of the council - rejected the mother's request that she be entrusted only with parental authority over the minor2. In addition, the same decision states that there will be no contact between the minor2 and the father .


4.4
The mother brought an appeal against the decision of 5 September 2018 with one complaint. This complaint is only directed against the (maintenance of) joint authority . The mother requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision (the Court of Appeal understands: as far as the decision concerning the authority is concerned) and, once again, to charge her only with the authority over the minor2.


4.5
The father puts forward a defense and asks the mother to declare the action inadmissible or to reject the action, ordering the mother to pay the costs of the action.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Section 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may, at the request of the parents who are not married to each other or of one of them, terminate the joint custody if afterwards the circumstances have changed or the decision on the basis of which the joint authority arose incorrect or incomplete data. The judge can then determine that custody of a child belongs to one of them if:

there is an unacceptable risk that the child would become trapped or lost between the parents and that it would not be expected that sufficient improvement would be achieved within the foreseeable future, or b. a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child .


5.2
The basic principle of the legislator is that joint custody of the parents is in the best interests of the child . Only in exceptional cases can it be assumed that the best interest of the child requires that one of the parents be entrusted with custody . The mother believes that such an exceptional situation exists. The father disputes that.


5.3
It has been found that for a number of years the father has no longer had contact with the minor2 and that the father has also not been able to give substance to joint authority over the minor2 for a number of years . In view of this, the Court of Appeal finds that the circumstances have changed since 2008 - after the disintegration of the parties.


5.4
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, however, the aforementioned changed circumstances do not yet constitute grounds for changing authority . After its own investigation, the Court of Appeal concludes that the aforementioned assessment criterion has not been met to end the joint authority . The Court of Appeal takes over the considerations of the court on this point, makes it its own after its own investigation and adds the following.


5.5
Insofar as the mother claims that the disrupted communication and the disturbed relationship between her and the father the chance to arrange affairs for the minderjarige2 including the necessary assistance is made more difficult if the father also with authority remains in charge, following the don't judge her in that.

With regard to the mother 's argument in support of her claim, it is (only) a dated period in the past, namely in 2016, when the mother had been referred to D for the treatment of the behavioral problem of the minor2. D noted that, in addition to the upbringing aspects, the fact that the minor2 had little or no contact with his father probably also influenced the minor's behavior2. At that time, assistance from D was proposed to improve mutual communication between the parents , and this suggestion was rejected by the father , according to the report drawn up by D at the time . Thefather thereby indicated that he was not confident that providing assistance in this area would help him and the minor2 (he later agreed). The Court of Appeal now considers this circumstance irrelevant in the present case because of the passage of time since then. The Court of Appeal considers it important that it has not been found that in the past period the father has impeded decisions in the interest of the minor2 . He also proclaimed at the court session that he respects the parent role that the mother plays in the life of the minor2 .


5.6
The mother has also stated that the father is not reachable for her, because she does not have a telephone number or e-mail address, but this has been sufficiently substantiated by the father . For example, he submitted screenshots of WhatsApp messages from the mother from 2017 and 2018, which show that the mother is able to communicate with him .


5.7
Although there are concerns about the poor communication between the parents and the court understands that the mother finds it difficult to exercise authority together with the father , it has not been shown that there is an unacceptable risk of the minor2 being trapped or risk of being lost between the parents or that it is necessary in the interests of the minor2 that the joint custody ends. The fact that parties are unable to communicate properly does not change this. As the council also mentioned in the council report of 23 May 2018 and at the hearing, the mother reststhe duty to consult and inform the father about decisions to be made. This is also possible via e-mail if personal contact is not possible. It is then up to the father to respond quickly and adequately if the mother approaches him for a decision.


5.8
Finally, the court hearing revealed that the mother has a new relationship and (again) plans to move to E.

The council has further explained and supplemented its advice to maintain joint authority (included in the council report of 23 May 2018), partly in view of the intended move of the mother discussed at the hearing . Hereby the Council emphasized that it is not desirable that the distance between the father and the minor2, as well as the distance between the children themselves (the minor2 and the minor1) is increased. With regard to the minor2, the Council takes the position that it is in the interest of the minor2 that contactis because at some point he will start to wonder where he comes from and will be curious about his origins. The probability that it comes into contact recovery is reduced if the mother 's move . The court is concerned, with the council , about the minor2, knowing that the minor2 has (knew) the necessary problems in the past, while the current social framework in A is doing well with the minor2 (as is also the case) recognized by the mother ). He functions well within the network that he now has, while for years - a period of much turmoil and many relocations- did not function properly. The court also discussed this with the minor2 himself. the minor2 indicated that the new school, with smaller classes, would suit him better. His grades are reasonable, although he finds some subjects difficult. In addition, contact with the minor1 has increased and he considers that important. He also sees his grandfather and grandmother more often.

This image is confirmed by all involved, including the mother . For example, the mother has indicated that the minor2 is feeling good and that school is also doing well. He has friends and gets good help. He is currently receiving psychomotor therapy (PMT) and that is also going well. His behavior has improved. the minor2 can now listen and talk better and express his feelings more easily.

Under these circumstances, it is not obvious to remove the minor2 from his current network. Nevertheless, this is threatened by the relocation plans of the mother . In view of the relocations and relocation plans in the past, it remains to be seen whether the mother will be able to create a stable, sufficiently adequate new network for the minor2. This gives, whatever else here, more reason to maintain the authority of the father than to take it away.


5.9
In view of the above, the Court sees no reason to depart from the above-mentioned principle that the parents must be jointly charged with the custody and jointly bear the responsibility for the upbringing and care of their child .


6 The conclusion

6.1
Based on what has been considered above, the grievances fail. The Court of Appeal will therefore ratify the contested decision, insofar as subject to its judgment.


6.2
In view of the nature of the dispute, the Court of Appeal will compensate the costs of the appeal proceedings in the sense that each party bears its own costs.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the Noord-Nederland District Court, location Assen, of 5 September 2018, to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court;

compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings in the sense that each party bears its own costs.

This decision was made by RA Boon, AW Beversluis and JG Idsardi, assisted by M. Marsnerova as Registrar, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the Registrar on 11 June 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 5015