Content indication
Access control and information obligation . Special consideration for the children .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-03-19
Publication date
2019-07-29
Case number
200,239,183
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.239.183

(case number Gelderland court 316438)

decision of 19 March 2019

in the case of

applicant,

residing at domicile, the applicant in the main appeal,

defendant in the incidental appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: F. van Nisselrooij in Zutphen, the Netherlands,

and

defendant,

living at home,

the defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in the cross-appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. AH Kiesouw in Zutphen.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the orders of the court of Gelderland, court of Zutphen, of 23 May 2017 and 1 February 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number. (The decision of 1 February 2018 is hereinafter referred to as the contested decision.)


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1.
The course of the procedure appears from:

the appeal with productions, received on 30 April 2018;
the statement of defense also incidentally appeals with productions;
the defense in the incidental appeal with productions;
a journal report from mr. Kiesouw of 16 November 2018 with productions;
a journal report from Van Nisselrooij of 16 November 2018;
a journal report from mr. Kiesouw of 20 November 2018 with production;
a journal report from mr. Kiesouw of 22 November 2018 with production;
the minutes of the oral procedure of 27 November 2018.

2.2.
The minors child 1, child 2 and child 3, hereafter referred to below, have each individually informed the court of their opinions with regard to the requests by letters received at the court on 17 September 2018 and 16 January 2019 respectively.


2.3.
The oral hearing took place on 27 November 2018. The mother appeared in person, assisted by her lawyer. On behalf of the father is

mr. Van Nisselrooij appeared at the hearing. The RvdK employee appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Council ).

Due to the absence of the father , the case has been stayed. The oral hearing then took place on 12 February 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. Employee 2 RvdK has appeared on behalf of the council .


3 The facts

3.1.
By order of the court of Zutphen of 5 October 2011, the dissolution of the registered partnership was pronounced between the father and the mother . This decision was registered on 21 November 2011 in the register of civil status.


3.2.
Parties are the parents of:

child 1 (further: child 1), born on the date of birth 2003 at the place;
child 2 (further: child 2), born on the date of birth 2004 at the place;
child 3 (further: child 3), born on the date of birth 2007 at the place; and
child 4 (further: child 4), born on the date of birth 2008 in place,
collectively also called: the children .


3.3.
By order of October 5, 2011, the court Zutphen, in relevant part, provides that the principal residence of the children to the mother will be and make arrangements adopted stating that the children with the father stays every Wednesday from 12:00 to 17:00 and once a fortnight on Saturdays from 10:00 to 17:00, which contact and consultation on designation of the family guardian can be extended.


3.4.
The children are from August 17, 2011 to February 17, 2016 under the supervision stood Foundation Offices Youth Gelderland.


3.5.
By order of 7 August 2013, the Gelderland District Court, Zutphen, seat of the court, charged the mother with the sole authority over the children . By decision of 16 September 2014, the Court of Appeal confirmed this decision.


3.6.
By decision of 6 August 2014, the juvenile court judge in the court of Gelderland, court of Zutphen, amended the decision of the court of Zutphen of 5 October 2011 in the sense that the division of care and upbringing duties laid down therein will be terminated with effect from 6 August 2014 .


3.7.
By petition, received at the court registry on 27 February 2017, the father asked the Gelderland court, Zutphen court, to lay down an access arrangement and an information arrangement, as described in his petition, at least an arrangement if the court deems it correct.

The mother has put forward a defense against this and has requested that the father 's request be rejected and release her from her obligation to inform the father about the children's fortunes .


3.8.
By decision of 23 May 2017, the Gelderland District Court, court of Zutphen, ordered an investigation into the question of whether changing the access arrangements in accordance with the father 's request is in the best interests of the children , whereby the council has the option of extending the investigation with a child protection investigation if the council sees reason to do so, the counselors requested to respond in writing upon receipt of the council report and any further decision held.


3.9.
The Council advised on the report of 30 October 2017.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1.
By the contested decision, declared enforceable by stock, the Gelderland District Court, Zutphen, has refused the father 's requests and relieved the mother of its obligation to provide information.


4.2.
The father lodged an appeal with two complaints concerning the decision of 1 February 2018. These complaints (complaint 1 relating to the rejection of the access arrangements and complaint 2 concerning the exemption of the mother from her obligation to provide information ) are aimed at the dispute on appeal to be presented to the court in full scope.

The father requests the Court of Appeal, by decision as far as possible in stock, to annul the contested decision and, once again, to lay down access rules that the Court of Appeal considers correct and to determine that an information obligation, or at least a decision, is again imposed on the mother to take if the court considers correct.


4.3.
The mother lodged a substantiated defense in the main appeal and in turn brought an incidental appeal with one complaint. The complaint relates to the father 's right to associate with the children .

The mother requests the court of appeal to reject the father 's request in the main appeal and to uphold the contested decision and to annul the contested decision in the incidental appeal (understands the court of appeal), in so far as it concerns the handling and, once again, to order that the father is denied exercise of the rights of access to the children during their minor age , for the period from the date of the decision to be given up to and including 17 September 2026, to take at least a decision such as the court eight.


4.4.
The father lodged a defense in the incidental appeal and requests the Court of Appeal to declare the mother inadmissible in her appeal, or to reject her requests, or to take a decision if the court considers it correct.


4.5.
The Court of Appeal will assess the complaints in principal and incidental appeal per subject.


5 The reasons for the decision
The access arrangement


5.1.
By decision of 6 August 2014, the juvenile court terminated the previously established care scheme . Because more than a year has passed, the father can go to court again to have an access arrangement established. The father is therefore admissible in his request.


5.2.
The judge at the request of the parents or one of them, whether or not for a fixed period, a system of exercising the rights of fixed or deny whether or not for some time, the right to association . Under 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), the court rejects the request for intercourse than it denies the right of association only if:

interaction would cause serious harm to the child 's mental or physical development , or

the parent must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or

the child who is twelve years of age or older has shown at his hearing of serious objections to dealing with his parent , or

handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.3.
A child has the right to associate with his parents and with the person who has a close personal relationship with him. With regard to the parent who is not charged with custody and the person who has a close personal relationship with the child , this right is guaranteed by Article 8 of the ECHR and Article 1: 377a (1) of the Dutch Civil Code and, with regard to the child , not only by that child. the latter provision, but also by Article 9, paragraph 3, CRC and Article 24, paragraph 3, Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. The judge can give the parent not charged with custody the right to have contact with the childonly deny them on the grounds listed in Article 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code. Under Article 1: 247 (3) of the Dutch Civil Code, the parent charged with custody is under an obligation to promote the development of his child 's ties with the other parent (HR 28 March 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 748 ).


5.4.
The Court of Appeal adopts the judgment and the underlying considerations of the court in the contested decisions with regard to the rejection of the father 's request for the adoption of a visitation arrangement and makes it his own after his own investigation . In addition to this, the court also considers as follows.


5.5.
There has been no change in the situation of the father since the contested decision (1 February 2018) . The father has not sought any help for himself in the recent period , so that his concerns about his situation are fully present. Although the father in his position remains that he has no problems and therefore no aid needs, has the father in the past several times the interests of the children affected. For example, the children have had a lot of problems with the negative statements of the father about the mother and the grandfather on the mother's side, for example., as well as unexpected visits by the father to the children 's school . The suspicions of personal problems with the father remain. Without adequate and professional care, it is not in line with expectations that the father will change his behavior. Based on this, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the father is apparently (still) unable to deal with the children . On the basis of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal sees no reason to proceed with establishing an access arrangement , even under supervision . The first complaint of the father fails.


5.6.
The mother calls on cross-appeal a step further and the father the right to association to deny to the majority of the children , put her on the date when the youngest child of the parties, majority will be.

The court rules as follows. Law that any rejection of a request to establish an access arrangement and any decision in which the association has been denied temporary, in the sense that the parent whose applications have been rejected in the event of changes in circumstances and in any case over can go to court again for a year in order to have an access arrangement established (Supreme Court February 27, 2009, ECLI: NL: HR: 2009: BG5045 ). The mother 's request is therefore not admissible, so that the court will reject this request. The complaint of the mother in the incidental appeal therefore fails.

A special consideration for the children


5.7.
Because child 2 and child 3 have indicated that they do want to have contact with the father , the court will try to explain in this separate paragraph why the court finds that there can be no contact between the father and the children . The council (for child protection ) visited the father's house twice for an investigation . During those visits, the investigators are very shocked by the situation at their father's home. The house of the fatherwas very dirty and the father also made an unkempt impression during those visits. He looked very slender and not neat. It was difficult for the council investigators to have a conversation with the father . He was easily excited, restless and could talk about almost nothing but in a negative way on the mother and the grandfather of maternal (also referred to as grandfather). As a result of these visits, the council investigators got the impression that there are problems with the father . As a result, the question is to what extent the father manages to interact with the children in a normal wayto have. For the court, the interests of the children come first. For the children it is important that the father does not talk negatively about their mother and grandfather during intercourse . The father does say that he is not doing this, but in recent years the father has done things several times that were not good for the children . He nevertheless spoke to the children about the mother and grandfather in a negative way . He also has the childrenunexpectedly looked up at school, although he knew he shouldn't do this because it is very annoying for the children . That is why in his report the council advised the father to seek help. Apart from being able to help the father to get his house tidy and to make sure that he gets more attention for his appearance, this help can help him to find a place for his negative thoughts about the mother and grandfather to ensure that he does not discuss these negative thoughts with the children . The fatherbelieves that he has no problems and therefore needs no help. Because the father refuses to seek help, the court continues to be concerned about the situation with the father and the way he talks about the mother and grandfather. Also during the session at the court it is not possible to talk to the father about this in a good way . As long as these concerns remain, the court does not consider it wise to have intercourse between the father and the children . If the children suffer from statements or actions of the father time and time again, this may in the future cause thechildren get problems themselves. The court finds that this should be prevented and therefore the court will uphold the court's ruling that there can be no contact between the father and the children . If the father really wants to interact with the children , he will first have to show that he is really getting better and that the children will not be bothered by the relationship with him. However understandable the court also finds that children like dealing with their father's will, the court considers that the fathercan not have contact with the children at the present time without the risk that the children will experience this now or in the future.

The information scheme


5.8.
Pursuant to Article 1: 377b, first paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code, the parents charged with the custody are obliged to inform the parent not charged with the custody of important matters relating to the person and property of the child and to consult - if necessary through the intervention of third parties - about decisions to be taken in this regard. At the request of a parent , the court can determine an arrangement in this regard. Pursuant to the second paragraph of this article, the court may, if the child's interests so require, both at the request of the parent charged with custody determine as ex officio that the first paragraph of this article does not apply.


5.9.
The court considers as follows. The father wishes to be informed about the children , while the mother indicates that she can no longer afford to meet any information obligation. A condition for declaring an information obligation to be inapplicable is that the interests of the children require this. The documents and the oral proceedings did not show that the children are affected in any way by the information scheme. It is mainly the mother who is bothered by the information regulation due to the reactions of the father. The latter, however, is not a legal ground for not applying the information scheme, since it has not been shown that the children are burdened by the problems that mother experiences as a result of the information scheme. Now that the father has no contact with the children , the information scheme is the only way for the father to get information about the children . It is not excluded that the father will (be able to) have contact with the children at some point . Partly in view of this, it is important that the father is aware of the ups and downs of his children, so that he can better connect with them in the event of a resumption of contact . Given the pledge of the father , to which the court keeps the father , the court assumes that the father will not respond to the mother on the information received. The court considers it conceivable that the mother , because of the tax they will experience for the father to provide information, the father - possibly through the intervention or assistance of a third party, such as a counselor - it provides the information. The court does see in the tax that the mother experiences, reason to determine that themother only has to provide information to the father twice a year . The father 's second complaint is successful.


6 The conclusion
in the principal appeal and the incidental appeal

On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will annul the contested decision, insofar as it concerns the exemption from the information scheme, and furthermore decide as follows.


7 The decision
The court of appeal, having the principal and the incidental appeal:

annuls the order of the Gelderland District Court, Zutphen, of February 1, 2018, in so far as the mother is relieved of her obligation to provide information, and in so far as it again has:

stipulates that the mother - possibly through the intervention or assistance of a third party, such as a care provider - informs the father once every six months about important matters concerning child 1, child 2, child 3 and child 4, including the health of the children , the school performance of the children with a copy of their school reports, the progress of the assistance and special events, accompanied by a recent photo of the children ;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

endorses the decision of the Gelderland District Court, Zutphen, seat of 1 February 2018, for the remainder;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. R. Krijger, CJ Laurentius-Kooter and H. Phaff, assisted by M. Knipping-Verbeek LL.M. as clerk, was signed by H. Phaff LL.M. of the registrar.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 2398