Content indication
Establishing an access arrangement with the father is currently at odds with the weighty interests of the children . However, the complete absence of contact with the father is harmful to the identity and socio-emotional development of the children . For that reason referral to OKT.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-29
Publication date
2019-11-05
Case number
200.226.201 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
Interim judgment: ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2018: 2623
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.226.201 / 01

Case number court: C / 13/623910 / FA RK 17-987 (AW MW)

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 29 October 2019 on

the father ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the father ,

lawyer: CME Schreinemacher in Amsterdam,

and

the mother ,

living at home,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: A. Yandere in Amsterdam.

Minors are considered as other stakeholders:

- A (hereinafter referred to as: child A);

- B (hereinafter referred to as: child B).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location: Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The further appeal proceedings

1.1
The Court of Appeal refers to its decision of 24 July 2018. In that decision, the Council was requested to conduct an investigation on the basis of the following questions:

What possibilities are there for an access arrangement between the children and the father ?
Are there any factors that impede contact ? If yes which one? How and in what period can these factors be eliminated?
How should the contact be organized in the interests of the children ?
Every further decision has been reserved pending the Board's investigation.


1.2
The report of the council of 9 April 2019 (hereinafter: the council report) was received at the court on 11 April 2019 .


1.3
The oral hearing was continued on 12 July 2019. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by his lawyer;

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. ILC Stuifbergen.


2 The further statement of reasons for the decision

2.1
Pursuant to Article 1: 377a, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), the court may, among other things, lay down rules concerning the exercise of access rights at the request of one of the parents . The right of association may be denied only in Article 1: 377a, paragraph BW enumerated grounds, a common characteristic to have intercourse contrary to the overriding interests of the child .


2.2
In summary, the council concluded as follows in the council report. child B and child A have not had contact with the father since 2012/2013 and they are currently not open to contact recovery . Their resistance to contact recovery is mainly due to disappointment with regard to the father and the lack of efforts by him to restore contact. child A has consciously experienced the failure of contact moments in the past and remembers the disappointment when he was waiting for nothing. He especially wonders why the father was not there for him. childB also has fears about the relationship because he remembers that the father was strict and that he and child A were not allowed to go to bed at the same time as he was used to with the mother . The children experience feelings of anger and sadness towards the father . In addition, child A mainly experiences a feeling of rejection, which makes him - in combination with his fear of failure and his bullying past - a vulnerable boy. Although the failure to restore contact with the father will give the children a rest in the short term, the council is concerned that thechildren will experience this later. The lack of any contact with the father can have negative consequences for, among other things, their identity development, self-image and their skills in establishing relationships. For the identity development and socially-emotionally balanced development of child A and child B, it is therefore important, according to the council, that they can form their own image of the father and have the opportunity to view the almost exclusively negative image they now have. to adjust and nuance of the father . For a recurring access arrangementwith a fixed frequency, however, it is too early at the moment. In view of the resistance of both the children and the mother , the deployment of assistance is first necessary to achieve contact recovery. The Parent and Child Team (OKT) can offer support to the children and parents in this. Based on the above, the council advises the court not to lay down a fixed access arrangement , but to determine that the father and the children spend one afternoon together on neutral ground. Then withassistance should be evaluated and looked at how the contact can be continued. The aim is to establish low-frequency contact between the father and the children , according to the council .


2.3
At the hearing on appeal, the council added on request that the father has shown that he has insight into the reality of the children and realizes that he will have a different role in the children 's lives . For both parents it is important to get support in contact recovery and to learn to start from the positive in the other. For the children it is important to be able to prepare for a meeting with the father . The father can help them by sending cards in advance. The parentsmust then register with the OKT. They can help both parents and children with and prepare for contact recovery .


2.4
The father stated at the hearing on appeal that he realizes that he will play a limited role in the lives of the children and that any interaction between him and the children will only take place to a limited extent. The handling procedure has been going on for quite some time now and he hopes that he can make a positive contribution to the lives of the children and show them that he is interested in them. The father is open to guidance from the OKT and hopes that contact recovery with assistance can be achieved.


2.5
The mother has appealed in court stated, inter alia. It is currently well with the kids . child B is over to high school and child A is over to the fourth year. child A has completed his fear of failure training and this helped him well. However, the children still indicate that they do not want contact with the father and they do not understand why they are not being listened to. It would be good for the children if they know that the father is thinking of them, for example because he sends their cards. This is what the father hasso far not done consistently. The mother does not want to force the children to contact the father, but is in principle open to guidance from the OKT. However, she has little confidence that the father will cooperate well.


2.6
The court considers as follows.

The council report and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal have shown that the children are not currently open to contact with the father . This is mainly due to the children's feelings of disappointment and anger towards the father . The children have not been in contact with him for more than six years and they feel that he has shown little effort to restore contact with them. They thereby experience feelings of rejection. In addition, child A was recently again disappointed because child B did and did not receive a ticket from the father . Thefather also claims to have sent a card to child A and that his sisters have also sent cards to the children . Whatever that may be, it is clear that both parties start from the negative in the other. The children undoubtedly get the tensions between the parents and their disapproval towards each other. In view of this, at the age of the children and their resistance to contact with the father , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the establishment of a visitation arrangement is contrary to important interests of the children . With the boardthe court is however of the opinion that remain entirely omitted from contact with the father is damaging to the identity and socio-emotional development of children . Like the Council , the Court of Appeal considers it to be in the interest of the children that they are given the opportunity to adjust the exclusively negative image that they have of the father . The children , especially child A, also have questions about the father . It is in their interest to get these questions answered. This is only possible by allowing contact with the father in their lives in any way . Now bothparents at the hearing on appeal have stated that they are open to assistance from the OKT, the court assumes that they will both endeavor to establish contact between the father and the children . Given the vulnerability of the children , it is of great importance that the children are not disappointed again. Both parents must therefore register with OKT, so that an interview can be scheduled within the foreseeable future. Both the children and the parentsmust be properly prepared for this contact moment beforehand with the help of the OKT. The Court of Appeal also finds it in the interest of the children that the mother takes on a stimulating role in contact recovery. After this first moment of contact, the assistance can be used to look at the needs of the children and how future contact between the father and children can be shaped.


2.7
In view of the above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision and reject the father 's request . The Court of Appeal sees no reason to hold the case pending the results of the assistance , since a procedure such as this one puts a lot of pressure on all involved and this is not in their interest in a situation where contact recovery will be very early.


2.8
For the sake of completeness, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it is worrying that the information scheme as stated under 5.6 in the interim decision and to which the mother has declared itself willing has not got off the ground for the time being. Now that the mother has stated at the hearing once again that he is prepared to inform the father about the children once every quarter , the court assumes that the mother will do so this time. The Court of Appeal emphasizes that the mother also has an obligation to do so on the basis of Article 1: 377b, first paragraph of the Dutch Civil Code.


3 Decision
The court:

endorses the decision whose appeal has been made, taking into account what has been considered above under 2.6;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by AN van de Beek, AVT de Bie and JA van Keulen, in the presence of SCGA Duivenvoorde as Registrar, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 29 October 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3945