Content indication
authority
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-01-08
Publication date
2019-01-21
Case number
200.214.385 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2017: 326
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.214.385 / 01

Case number court: C / 15/242807 / FA RK 16-2723

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 8 January 2019 concerning

the woman ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: A. Krim in Haarlem, the Netherlands,

and

the man ,

living at home,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: mr. BJ de Groot in Haarlem.

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location: Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .

The following are also considered as informers:

- the certified institution Youth and Family Protectors (hereinafter: the GI).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of Noord-Holland (location Haarlem) of 25 January 2017, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1.
The woman lodged an appeal on 19 April 2017 against the aforementioned decision of 25 January 2017.


2.2.
The man submitted a statement of defense on 13 June 2017.


2.3.
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a journal report from the man of 26 July 2017 with appendices, received on 27 July 2017;

- a journal report from the woman of 8 November 2017 with appendices, received on 9 November 2017;

- a journal report from the man of 16 November 2017 with appendices, received on 17 November 2017;

- a letter from the GI of November 15, 2017, received on July 16, 2017.


2.4.
The oral hearing took place on November 27, 2017. The court of appeal has asked the council to conduct an investigation - in brief - into the authority over the minor children of the parties to be mentioned below . With that in mind, the handling of the case has been postponed. An official report has been drawn up of the oral procedure that is attached to the documents.


2.5.
A report from the council of 4 April 2018 was received at the registry of this court on 5 April 2018.


2.6.
On 7 May 2018, a letter of 18 April 2018 with appendices was received at the registry of this court on 7 May 2018.


2.7.
The oral hearing was continued on 31 October 2018, where the following appeared:

- the woman assisted by her lawyer;

- the man, assisted by his lawyer;

- Ms A. Metselaar on behalf of the council ;

- a GI employee.


3 The facts

3.1.
From the (now broken) relationship of the woman and the man are born:

- child A (hereafter: child A) in 2006;

- child B (hereinafter: child B), in 2008;

- child C (hereinafter: child C), in 2011 (hereinafter collectively: the children ).

The man has recognized the children . On 26 August 2014, the wife and the husband had the joint authority recorded in the register of authorities .


3.2.
By order of 5 October 2016, the juvenile court judge in the Noord-Holland district court determined the children 's main residence of the woman and the woman's request regarding custody was held pending the outcome of the procedure regarding supervision .


3.3
By order of the juvenile court of 30 September 2016, the children were placed under the supervision of the GI for the duration of one year. The measure was subsequently extended, most recently until 30 September 2019.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1.
In the contested decision, the woman's request to end joint custody and to entrust her with the sole authority over the children was rejected.


4.2.
With the annulment of the contested decision, the woman requests that her preliminary request be granted.


4.3.
The man requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1.
The council has investigated the authority situation . From the under 2.5. The aforementioned council report shows the following:

The man was charged with having threatened the woman in January 2017 with any crime against life, at least with severe mistreatment . He has invaded the woman 's home and bedroom (while two of the three daughters of parties were at home) and threatened her . In a judgment of 21 February 2018 of this court, the man - in addition to a prison sentence and community service - was imposed the measure aimed at limiting freedom, which means that he will not remain in the vicinity of the home address of the woman and that he will in no way - directly or indirectly - contact, seek or have contact with the woman and thechildren unless such contact is necessary in the context of agreements that are made about dealing with the children and to the extent that the family guardian is involved.

The GI has established a visit arrangement for the man and the children , in short, meaning that they have contact for one hour every two months under the guidance of the GI .

For the exercise of joint custody , reasonable and constructive contact between parents is more than desirable, according to the Council . This has not (or has not been) between the parties; nor can it be expected that this will happen in the future. When the woman with the monarchical authority would be taxed, can GI man but no written evidence to give more and also the risk that the man completely out of the picture disappears when the supervision order ends and the family manager, no switching is more between the parties.

When choosing joint or single authority , the interests of the children are paramount and that is best served with peace, clarity and predictability. These three conditions were met in the past period, precisely because the parents had no contact with each other (because of the imposed prohibition on contact ), and because of GI's involvement. It appears that the children benefited from this.

The man has shown not to put the interests of the children first and therefore to be insufficiently able to give substance to his authority in a good, constructive way , especially in view of the excessive violent crime for which he was given in the aforementioned judgment of 21 February 2018 has been convicted. The council is seriously concerned about the man's behavior, all the more so because he still does not want to accept help for himself. Given the contact prohibition of men, there is no longer the possibility for a solid, constructive cooperation with women. In the interest of children advises the Board therefore to the monarchical authority to assign to the woman.

At the hearing on appeal, the Council added to the foregoing that no constructive consultation is possible between the parties at all and that the children will therefore become trapped or lost between the parents if they share custody . The man can also fill in his father role without authority , in the first place by implementing the visit arrangement. An obligation to provide information must also be imposed on the woman .


5.2.
The man at the hearing held on appeal that he through the GI fails visitation drafted because he does not agree with the provision that the association under supervision takes place. The children have at their grandmother paternal said to their father like to see, but they do not at the office GI want and the man respects the wishes of the children . The visit arrangement that the children have with their grandmother is going well.

The man does not agree with the advice of the council . He fears that he will no longer receive any information from the woman if she is entrusted with the single-headed authority . Since 2016, the woman has acted as if she has sole authority and does not provide any information to the husband about, for example, the medical condition of the children and their holiday destination. The man does not know which school the children go to. The use of the GI has not led to any improvement, according to the man.


5.3.
The woman has hearing appeal confirmed that no interaction occurs between the children and the husband and that visitation with the grandmother paternal going well. The children want to see the man and the woman regrets that there is no interaction .

The woman agrees with the advice of the council . The man keeps screaming and making threats and refusing help. Although he may see his children , he remains angry . The man does not see that his angry attitude is counterproductive. He has also refused several times to give his permission when it was necessary for the children ; so it took a long time to arrange therapy for the children . The woman fears that the children will get stuck or lost between her and the husband if it is joint authorityis maintained. She further argues that constructive consultation is not possible; given the man's negative treatment, she is still afraid of him.


5.4.
Pursuant to Section 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may, at the request of the parents who are not married to each other or of one of them, terminate the joint custody if afterwards the circumstances have changed or if the decision was made on the basis of of which the joint authority arose based on incorrect or incomplete data. The judge can then determine that custody of a child belongs to one of them if:

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child might become trapped or lost between the parents and that it is not expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, or b. a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child .


5.5.
The Court of Appeal finds that the circumstances have changed, even though the parties have split up since the record of their joint custody and a custodial order has been pronounced, because the children have witnessed relationship and aggression problems between the parents and no structural agreements have been made about it interaction between the man and the children , while parties are unable to communicate properly about this .

According to settled case law brings the lack of good communication between parents not simply note that in the interest of the child to the custody of one of the parents must be granted. However, joint custody requires that the parents are actually able to exercise proper joint custody and that they can take decisions of any interest about their child in joint consultation, or at least be able to make agreements about situations that may arise around their child . occur so that the childnot get stuck or lost between parents . In assessing whether the joint custody should be terminated, the interests of the child are paramount and, contrary to what the husband may think, not the right (to information) of the parent .

In this case there have been problems between the parents for years , accompanied by aggression and physical and verbal violence. There are several police reports of violence, stalking and threats by the man; he has been sentenced to imprisonment and community service for the under 5.1. mentioned incident and a prolonged prohibition of contact with the woman has been imposed on him. The woman has great fear of the man and has been diagnosed with PTSD, for which she has undergone EMDR treatment. The children are damaged and traumatized as a result of the escalations between their parents . As the turmoil between their parentstheir anger , sadness and fear are also increasing, according to the council report. As a result of the aforementioned conviction of the man and the five-year contact prohibition imposed on him , there is no contact between him and the woman and there should not be any. For that reason, it must be judged that the children would become trapped or lost between their parents if the joint authority was maintained: the joint decision-making process was seriously hampered by the absence of direct contact. Incidentally, even without contact prohibition, reasonable and constructive consultation between parties seems to be out of the question, given their very natureconflicting understanding. The Court of Appeal therefore considers it necessary in the interests of the children to grant the woman's request for the cessation of joint custody .


5.6.
At the hearing on appeal, the man took the position that the minor child A 's right to be heard as laid down in the CRC was violated, since she had not made use of the invitation of the court to express its opinion in a child interview . Now that the court of appeal has taken cognizance of the report of the council of 4 April 2018, in which the opinion of child A is set out in detail, the court of appeal is of the opinion that there has been no violation of article 12 CRC.


5.7.
At the hearing on appeal it also became apparent that the man is highly frustrated with the lack of information; both the woman and the GI provide him with little or no information about the children , he says. The man did not request the establishment of an information scheme because he has no confidence that the woman will cooperate. However, now that the woman stated at the hearing on appeal that she is willing to provide information to the man, the court assumes that she will do so every four months, informing the man how the children are developing, how things are going with their health, at school, with sports and friends. She will also indicate the country of their holiday destination. The Court of Appeal assumes that the woman informs the man in the interim if there is a serious (health) issue.


5.8.
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

annul the decision whose appeal and, once again:

ends the authority of the man over child A, child B and child C;

only charge the woman with the authority over child A, child B and child C;

the Registrar under the provisions of the Decree authority registers a copy of this statement to be forwarded to the clerk of the court Noord-Holland (location Haarlem), Department civil, family and juvenile law team for the attention of the public register;

declares this decision enforceable from stock.

This decision was made by AR Sturhoofd, JMC Louwinger-Rijk and M. Perfors, in the presence of FJE van Geijn, as clerk of the court, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 8 January 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 46