Content indication
The Court of Appeal condemns the suspect for public violence. Defense of evidence has been rejected as well as the defense of bad weather (excess). Suspect was given a prison sentence of one month suspended and a community service sentence of 120 hours. The court of appeal also imposes the measure of a prohibition of contact and area prohibition for the duration of three years. The claims of the injured parties are partially assigned.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-09-19
Publication date
2019-09-23
Case number
21-000677-18
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBGEL: 2018: 296, (Partial) destruction and disposed of
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
Department of criminal law

Parquet number: 21-000677-18

Judgment dated September 19, 2019

Contradiction

Shortened judgment of the Multiple Chamber for Criminal Matters of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal, Arnhem seat

recalled the appeal, brought against the judgment of the Gelderland District Court of 23 January 2018 with public prosecutor number 05-085575-17 in the criminal case against

suspect ,
born at birth place on 1995,

residing at residence 1.

The appeal
The suspect appealed against the aforementioned judgment.

Investigation of the case
This judgment was delivered on the basis of the investigation at the court hearing of 5 September 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the investigation at the court of first instance.

The Court of Appeal has taken note of the advocate general's claim. This claim was submitted to the court after reading. The Court of Appeal also took cognizance of what was put forward by the suspect and his counselor, Mr. D. Simo.

The judgment whose appeal
The suspect was sentenced by judgment of the Gelderland court of 23 January 2018 for - in short - openly committing violence against the injured 1 and the injured 2.

The court of appeal will set aside the judgment of which an appeal is made because it comes to a partly different statement of evidence and a different punishment and will therefore do justice again.

The indictment
The defendant has been charged - after changing the indictment at the trial hearing - that:

he has committed violence in association with or on 9 April 2017 in Beesd, at least in the municipality of Geldermalsen, namely at the address, at least on or on the public highway and / or at a place accessible to the public, against (a) person (s), namely injured 1 and / or injured 2 by

- to give the injured person 1 (with force) a head butt and / or

- to grab and / or hold the injured party 1 and / or

- grasping the injured 1 and / or the injured 2 in a neck clamp and / or holding and / or (forcefully) working towards the ground and / or throwing and / or

- striking the injured 1 and / or the injured 2 (with force) several times, at least once, on / against the body and / or punching and / or pushing and / or

- to hit that injured 1 (with force) several times, at least once, with a pole, or at least a hard (impact) object, on / against the hip and / or the (other) body and / or

- striking the injured 2 (with force) several times, at least once, with a pole, or at least a hard (impact) object, on / against the head and / or (other) body.

If language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, these have been corrected. The suspect was therefore not harmed in the defense.

Consideration regarding the evidence
Advocate General's Opinion

The Advocate General has taken the position that the fact can be proved legally and convincingly. This also applies to the indictment, as it forms part of the entire complex of facts that must be classified as outright violence.

Defense position

The suspect's counsel has argued that the suspect must be acquitted of the charges charged to him. To this end, the counsel has argued - briefly - that the camera images, as well as the report of findings regarding the camera images, as well as the declarations made by the declarants should be excluded from the evidence, so that there is insufficient legal and convincing evidence. Furthermore, it cannot be proven that the suspect has made a significant contribution to the violence committed, so that the suspect must also be acquitted for that reason. According to the defense, there is also no question of open violence because the violence was not committed in a place or space accessible to the public.

Court judgment

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the defense put forward by the accused seeking acquittal of the indicted person is contradicted by the evidence used as will later be included in the possible supplement to this judgment. The court of appeal has no reason to doubt the accuracy and reliability of the content of those means of proof.

For the evidence, the court of appeal will use, among other things, its own perception of the camera images contained in the file, which - as was also the case at the hearing - correspond to the representation thereof by the court in its judgment of 23 January 2018.

Evidence exclusion defense

The defense has argued that the image material, the report of findings thereon and the other documents relating to the camera images should be excluded from the evidence, because there would be unlawfully obtained evidence and an inaccurate elaboration of the images.

The Advocate General has requested that these defenses be rejected. The images were issued spontaneously and there is no formal defect as referred to in Article 359a of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

With regard to the visual material, the court first of all stated that the camera, the visual material of which was provided, was hung by private individuals - the family last name injured. The camera images were spontaneously provided to the police by the family last name injured. There is no legal rule that prohibits that. The argument of the defense that the police should have immediately seized all camera images, does not support the law, apart from the question of whether other camera images were available. That - as is alleged - manipulated with the camera images is in no way substantiated and has not become plausible. There has been no evidence of any formal defect within the meaning of Article 359a CC that could lead to the exclusion of evidence.

The defense of the defense that the official report drawn up by the reporters should be excluded from findings as a result of viewing the images of the evidence needs no discussion, since the court will not use this official report for the evidence. As already indicated above, the court of appeal will use its own observation of the camera images in the file as evidence.

The defense also takes the view that declarations made by declarants were at a disadvantage 1. and injured person 2 should be excluded from the evidence because of its unreliability. Declarants have had the opportunity to view the visual material present and to coordinate their statements with it and with each other.

The court also rejects this defense. The Court of Appeal has no reason to doubt the accuracy and reliability of their statements, since their statements are supported on key points by other means of evidence, namely the camera images and the medical statements.

Further evidence considerations

On the basis of the evidence, the Court of Appeal found that fellow suspect 1 (first name), the father of the suspect, on 9 April 2017 pulled a tree from the plot of the family name of the injured parties at residence 2 and over the fence of the injured person 1 has thrown, as well as the corresponding posts. injured person 1 walked over to it and then fellow suspect 1 walked through the fence into the property of injured person 1 and approached him. injured 1 spoke to fellow suspect 1, which gave him a headbutt.

After this, the suspect and his brother co-suspect 2 also came to the property of the family last name injured and the proven acts of violence to be explained took place. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there are persons operating in a group who have jointly committed violence against other persons. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the suspect has made a significant and substantial contribution to the violence by pushing injured person 2 to the ground and beating him. The defense of the counsel woman is rejected to that extent.

The Court of Appeal will partially acquit the suspect from the indicted headbutt, because when fellow suspect 1 dealt the headbutt, there was no question of open violence. At that time, there was a one-to-one situation between co-suspect 1 and the person making the claim 1.

The evidence shows that the incident took place on the property of the family name injured parties and that this was visible from the public road or could at least have been for third parties. The defense that there was no question of open violence because the incident would not have taken place in public is also rejected.

The Court of Appeal therefore considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the suspect was guilty of public violence.

Proof of declaration
By legal means of proof, which include the reasoning facts and circumstances on which the statement of evidence is based, the Court of Appeal considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the accused committed the charge, on the understanding that:

he on or about Beesd April 9, 2017 , at least in the municipality of Geldermalsen openly, namely, to address , at least in or on the public road and / or at a public place, in association violence committed against (a) person or persons (o) n ( and ) , namely, 1 injured and / or disadvantaged by 2

- to give the injured person 1 (with force) a head butt and / or

- to grab and / or hold the injured party 1 and / or

- grasping the injured 1 and / or the injured 2 in a neck clamp and / or holding and / or ( forcefully ) working towards the ground and / or throwing and / or

- which disadvantaged 1 and / or disadvantaged 2 ( with force ) several times , at least once, on / save against the body and / or to punch and / or pushing and / or

- to hit that injured 1 ( with force ) several times , at least once, with a pole , or at least a hard (impact) object, on / against the hip and / or the (other) body and / or

- striking the injured 2 ( with force ) several times , at least once, with a pole , or at least a hard (impact) object, on / against the head and / or (other) body.

The Court of Appeal does not consider that what the accused was charged more or differently than was stated above, so that this should be acquitted.

Punishability of the proven
The proven certified provides:

openly commit violence against individuals in association.

Appeal to bad weather
The defense has argued that the suspect should be released from all prosecution because he acted in a storm. To this end, the defense has argued that injured 1 with a pole lashed at co-suspect 1 whereby the suspect had to defend his father and that the suspect heard shouting that the dogs had to be "posed" and that the dogs were attacking, whereby the suspect himself, his father and his brother, had to defend.

The Advocate General takes the position that there is nothing to indicate that there was a threat from the dogs, that they were aggressive and that the suspect should have defended himself. The suspect entered the family name of the injured parties while the dogs were already there. The suspect could and should have left.

The court agrees with the court that the suspect is not entitled to invasion. In the opinion of the court of appeal, there has been no question of an instantaneous assault against one's own or another person's body, honor or good. The co-suspect co-suspect 1 has entered the property of the injured party 1, has ended up on him and has made a head-bump movement in his direction. Then the suspect and the co-suspect co-suspect 2 came to the yard. A situation of violence arose in which the suspect had interfered.

In this context, the Court considers it important that the images show that the dogs were not attacking the suspect or the co-suspects. At the hearing on appeal, the suspect also stated that the dogs did not attack him. Furthermore, it can be seen from the images that injured person 2 picks up a pole, but that he holds it horizontally in front of the court to defend himself. fellow suspect 1 chooses the attack by grabbing the injured person 2 in the neck. injured 2 throws the post away, after which fellow suspect 1 picks up the post and then hits injured 2 with it. In response to this, injured party 1 and co-suspect 1 were then thrown back and forth with a pole, after which the suspect had interfered with the incident. Instead of leaving or beingfather and declarants to take the injured 1 and the injured 2 apart, he opted for the attack by pushing the injured 2 to the ground and beating him. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, it cannot be concluded from these facts and circumstances that the accused acted out of necessity of defense in response to an instantaneous assault, and therefore the storm of defenses cannot succeed. The proven fact is therefore punishable.

Punishability of the suspect
The suspect has also invoked emergency weather excesses on the basis of which he should be released from all legal proceedings.

The court of appeal has ruled that there was no question of an emergency weather situation for the suspect, because there was no question of an immediate unlawful assault. In view of this, relying on emergency weather excesses cannot succeed either. The appeal to emergency weather excess is therefore rejected.

The suspect is punishable since no circumstance has been proven or has become plausible that would not make the suspect punishable.

Imposition of punishment and / or measure
The suspect was sentenced by the court to a community service order of 100 hours or alternatively 50 days in custody, with deduction of custody. Furthermore, the suspect was contacted with the family name injured parties and a location ban in the form of a measure within the meaning of Article 38v of the Criminal Code (Sr) for the duration of three years, the immediate enforceability of which has been ordered. The replacement custody has been set by the court at three days for each time the measure is not complied with.

The Advocate General has requested that the accused be sentenced to the same punishment and measure as the court of first instance.

The defense primarily asked the Court of Appeal not to impose a punishment and / or measure on the suspect on the basis of Article 9a Penal Code. In the alternative, the defense requested that the accused, on account of his personal circumstances and the share of the family last name injured, impose a suspended sentence. Due to his arrest, the suspect was unable to start at his new employer, leaving him without work for three weeks. The suspect now has a full-time job. Furthermore, the suspect has his life on the drive. He has no recent documentation. The defense also requests that the imposed contact and location ban be immediately terminated.

Given the seriousness of the fact, the Court of Appeal sees no reason to apply Article 9a of the Dutch Criminal Code.

On appeal, the Court of Appeal determined the punishment and measures to be imposed on the basis of the seriousness of the offense and the circumstances in which this was committed and in view of the person of the suspect. The Court of Appeal in particular took the following into consideration.

Together with others, the suspect was guilty of public violence. The suspect and his co-suspects have used brutal violence in this regard, among other things. The court agrees with the court that the suspect, together with others, has thereby infringed the physical integrity of the victims. In addition, the violence against the victims took place at the yard of the latter; a place where people should feel safe and secure. The behavior as shown by the suspect causes feelings of unrest and insecurity. Not only among the victims, but also in the immediate living environment and in society.

The Court of Appeal first of all states that a case like this justifies an unconditional prison sentence, as is also expressed in the so-called national landmarks. However, the court sees reason to suffice with the imposition of a suspended prison sentence in combination with a community service order.

To this end, the Court considers that the present conflict must be viewed in the light of the long-standing neighborly conflict with the family last name injured. In favor of the suspect, the court, like the court, takes into account the fact that the suspect did not actually participate in the incident until later and had a smaller share in the violence than the co-suspects. Furthermore, the court takes into account the fact that the suspect has no recent documentation.

In addition to the punishment to be imposed, the court considers that the court prohibits contact with the family name of the injured parties and a location ban for the area mentioned below in the form of a measure within the meaning of Article 38v of the Dutch Criminal Code. The Court of Appeal will hereby order immediate enforceability, now that serious account must be taken of the fact that the suspect will once again be incriminating towards declarants. The replacement custody determines the court on three days for each time that the measure is not complied with.

Claim of the injured party injured party 1
The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 14,432.38, consisting of € 6,432.38 for material damage and € 8,000 for non-material damage, plus the litigation costs of € 1,808. The claim is assigned to the judgment of which an appeal up to an amount of € 3,929.89, consisting of € 1,429.89 for material damage and € 2,500 for non-material damage, as well as a compensation of € 600 for the costs of the proceedings.

The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim, now to be increased by the costs of proceedings for both parties. Mr. MGF de Graaff explained the claim on behalf of the injured party at the court hearing.

From the investigation at the hearing, the court found that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the proven actions of the suspect, as the court also ruled. In the opinion of the court of appeal, the court has correctly estimated the damage so that the court agrees.

The Court of Appeal estimates the costs of proceedings in the first instance at € 400 based on the liquidation rate of the subdistrict court, based on the rate associated with an allocated amount of up to € 5,000, namely € 200 per point. The court of appeal, in contrast to the court, is of the opinion that two points must be taken into account, namely one point for the submission of the claim and twice a half point for the court hearings at first instance. The Court of Appeal considers this reasonable now that MGF de Graaff, LL.M., acts on behalf of both of the injured parties, the claims are strongly interrelated and there is a summary treatment of those claims at the hearing.

The Court of Appeal considers it reasonable to also budget the costs of the appeal on the basis of the liquidation rate of the subdistrict court, based on the rate associated with an allocated amount of up to € 5,000, namely € 240 per point. For the aforementioned reason, the Court of Appeal also starts from half a point before the hearing. For the enforcement and the modification of the claim, the Court of Appeal sees it as a reason to start from half a point in the stated circumstances. The Court of Appeal therefore estimates the costs of the proceedings on appeal at € 240.

The suspect is obliged to compensate the damage so that the claim for the aforementioned amounts will be granted, on the understanding that there will be a joint and several conviction with the co-suspects.

The more or otherwise demanded will be declared inadmissible, since the treatment thereof would result in a disproportionate burden on the criminal proceedings.

To promote that the damage is compensated by the suspect, the court will impose the measure of article 36f Penal Code in the manner to be mentioned below.

Claim of the injured party injured 2
The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 14,213.55, consisting of € 9,213.55 for material damage and € 5,000 for non-material damage, plus the litigation costs of € 1,808. The claim is assigned in the judgment for which an appeal was made up to an amount of € 4,062.37, consisting of € 1,562.37 for material damage and € 2,500 for non-material damage, as well as a fee of € 600 for the costs of the proceedings. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim, plus the costs of the proceedings of both parties. Mr. MGF de Graaff explained the claim on behalf of the injured party at the court hearing.

From the investigation at the hearing, the court found that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the proven actions of the suspect, as the court also ruled. In the opinion of the court of appeal, the court has correctly estimated the damage so that the court agrees.

The Court of Appeal estimates the costs of proceedings in the first instance at € 400 based on the liquidation rate of the subdistrict court, based on the rate associated with an allocated amount of up to € 5,000, namely € 200 per point. The court of appeal, in contrast to the court, is of the opinion that two points must be taken into account, namely one point for the submission of the claim and twice a half point for the court hearings at first instance. The Court of Appeal considers this reasonable now that MGF de Graaff, LL.M., acts on behalf of both of the injured parties, the claims are strongly interrelated and there is a summary treatment of those claims at the hearing.

The Court of Appeal considers it reasonable to also budget the costs of the appeal on the basis of the liquidation rate of the subdistrict court, based on the rate associated with an allocated amount of up to € 5,000, namely € 240 per point. For the aforementioned reason, the Court of Appeal also starts from half a point before the hearing. For the enforcement and the modification of the claim, the Court of Appeal sees it as a reason to start from half a point in the stated circumstances. The Court of Appeal therefore estimates the costs of the proceedings on appeal at € 240.

The suspect is obliged to compensate the damage so that the claim for the aforementioned amounts will be granted, on the understanding that there will be a joint and several conviction with the co-suspects.

The more or otherwise demanded will be declared inadmissible, since the treatment thereof would result in a disproportionate burden on the criminal proceedings.

To promote that the damage is compensated by the suspect, the court will impose the measure of article 36f Penal Code in the manner to be mentioned below.

Applicable legal requirements
The Court of Appeal has considered Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 22c, 22d, 36f, 38v, 38w and 141 of the Criminal Code .

These regulations have been applied as they were valid at the time of the proven.

DECISION
The court:

Destroys the judgment that appeals and does justice again:

Declares, as considered above, proven that the accused committed the charges.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares the proven criminal offense, qualifies this as mentioned above and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for the duration of 1 (one) month .

Determines that the prison sentence will not be enforced, unless the judge may later order otherwise because the suspect has committed a criminal offense before the end of a probationary period of 2 (two) years .

Recommends that the time taken by the accused before the implementation of that decision only in Article 27, paragraph, or Article 27a of the Code of Criminal will be referred to as pre-trial detention was spent in the execution of the sentence custody deducted , in so far as that time has not already been deducted from another penalty.

Sentences the suspect to community service for 120 (one hundred and twenty) hours , if not properly performed, to be replaced by 60 (sixty) days in custody .

Imposes on the measure aimed at limiting the freedom that the convicted person will not stay for three years at the address in Beesd and that he will also leave no objects / waste on or around this parcel.

Recommends that replacement custody will be applied in case the measure is not met. The duration of this replacement detention is 3 days for every time the measure is not complied with.

Application of the replacement custody does not abolish the obligations under the imposed measure.

Recommends that the imposed measure be immediately enforceable.
Imposes on the measure aimed at limiting the freedom that the convicted person will in no way - directly or indirectly - contact, seek or have contact with, for a period of 3 years

- injured person 1, born in 1957, residing at the address in domicile 2;

- injured person 2, born in 1985, residing at the address in domicile 2;

- the wife of the injured party 1, residing at the address in domicile 2.

Recommends that replacement custody will be applied in case the measure is not met. The duration of this replacement detention is 3 days for every time the measure is not complied with.

Application of the replacement custody does not abolish the obligations under the imposed measure.

Recommends that the imposed measure be immediately enforceable.
Claim of the injured party injured party 1
Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party to the injured party 1 in respect of the proven up to the amount of € 3,929.89 (three thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine euros and eighty-nine cents), consisting of € 1,429.89 (one thousand four hundred and twenty-nine euros and eighty-nine cents) material damage and € 2,500 (two thousand five hundred euros) for non-material damage, for which the suspect is jointly and severally liable with the co-perpetrator (s) for the entire amount , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at € 640 (six hundred and forty euros) up to the date of this judgment .

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named injured person 1, an amount of € 3,929.89 (three thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine euros and eighty-nine cents), consisting of € 1,429 , 89 (one thousand four hundred and twenty-nine euros and eighty-nine cents) material damage and € 2,500 (two thousand five hundred euros) non-material damage , in the absence of payment and redress replaced by 50 (fifty) days of detention , plus the statutory interest from the following state the commencement date until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of such detention does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the material and non-material damage on 9 April 2017.

Claim of the injured party injured 2
Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party to the injured party 2 in respect of the proven up to the amount of € 4,062.37 (four thousand sixty-two euros and thirty-seven cents), consisting of € 1,562.37 (one thousand five hundred and sixty-two euros and thirty-seven cent) material damage and € 2,500 (two thousand five hundred euros) of non-material damage, for which the suspect is jointly and severally liable with the co-perpetrator (s) for the entire amount , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment .

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the accused to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at € 640 (six hundred and forty euros) up to the date of this judgment .

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named injured 2, an amount of € 4,062.37 (four thousand sixty-two euros and thirty-seven cents), consisting of € 1,562 , 37 (one thousand five hundred and sixty-two euros and thirty-seven cents) material damage and € 2,500 (two thousand five hundred euros) immaterial damage , in the absence of payment and redress replaced by 51 (fifty-one) day detention , plus the statutory interest from the following state the commencement date until the date of payment , on the understanding that the application of such detention does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the material and non-material damage on 9 April 2017.

Thus pointed out by

RM Maanicus, chairman,

RH Koning and ML Plas, counselors,

in the presence of Mr. LJG Scheffer-Overbeek, Registrar,

and pronounced in open court on 19 September 2019.

Official report of the incident in the same case at the public hearing of the court of 19 September 2019.

Nowadays:

KAJM Wetzels, chairman,

J. van Spanje, Advocate General,

R. Hermans, Registrar.

The chairman proclaims the matter.

The suspect is not present in the hearing room.

The chairman pronounced the judgment.

Of which this official report is drawn up, which has been established and signed by the chairman and the clerk.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 7683