Content indication
The grounds for being placed under supervision have not been met . Ensuring sufficient attached to a serious threat to the development of children to adopt.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-26
Publication date
2019-03-11
Case number
200.248.243 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.248.243 / 01

Court case number: C / 15/269881 / JU RK 18-215

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 26 February 2019 concerning

the mother ,

living at home,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

and

the father ,

living at home,

hereinafter referred to as: the father ,

applicants on appeal,

lawyer: mr. MJ van Rooij in Haarlem,

against

the Child Protection Board ,

established in Haarlem,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .

The following are also considered as stakeholders:

- the minor A (hereafter referred to as: child A);

- the minor B (hereafter referred to as: child B);

- the certified institution Stichting Salvation Army Youth Protection and Youth Probation Service (hereinafter referred to as: the GI).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the juvenile court in the court of Noord-Holland, location Haarlem (hereinafter: the juvenile court ) of 23 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
On 19 October 2018, the mother and father (hereafter also together: the parents ) appealed against the aforementioned decision of 23 July 2018.


2.2
The council submitted a statement of defense on 6 December 2018.


2.3
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a fax message from the parents on January 11, 2019 with attachments, received on January 11, 2019.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on January 16, 2019. Appeared are:

- the parents , assisted by their lawyer,

- the council , represented by Mr Koops,

- the GI, represented by the current family manager and the former youth care worker .


3 The facts

3.1
From the relationship of the mother and the father are born:

- child A, place of birth in 2009, and

- child B, place of birth in 2008.

child A and child B (hereafter also together: the children ) live with the parents . The authority over the children is exercised by the mother . The father has not recognized the children .


3.2
From a previous relationship of the mother , the minor C was born in 2001 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ). the minor was arrested in 2017 for suspicion of murder / manslaughter. In 2018 he was sentenced by the Noord-Holland court to a juvenile detention for a period of twelve months and a PIJ measure.


3.3
By decision of the juvenile court of 13 February 2018, the examination of the request for supervision of the children by the Board was suspended pending an additional report from the Board , in which discussions were held with the children and the school.


3.4
The documents include a report from the council of 29 January 2018 and a supplementary report from the council of 4 July 2018.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision , the children were placed under the supervision of the GI at the request of the council for that purpose from 23 July 2018 to 23 July 2019.


4.2
The parents ask the contested decision set aside and the preliminary request of the council pointing out yet.


4.3
The Council requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The court may a 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW): Pursuant to Article 1 minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
The parents argue that the juvenile court has wrongly placed the children under supervision and argue the following, among other things. The children are not seriously threatened in their development . They are developing inadequately and do not show any worrying signals , which is also recognized by the school. Moreover, contrary to what the Council states, there is no question of a closed family system. The parents regularly talk to the children and answer all their questions at child level. The mother acknowledges that the situation with the minor is difficult, but she is not overburdened. In addition, the parents are open to assistance . They have in the past itself sought help at the Youth Team for the minor and now contribute to the aid of the GI. Therefore, the grounds for being placed under supervision have not been met, according to the parents .


5.3
The Council argues that the juvenile court judge has rightly and on good grounds placed the children under supervision and argues for this among other things the following. The children are seriously threatened in their development . They grow up in a very closed family system, which at the moment is stressful in view of the criminal proceedings against their brother. The children feel little room to discuss things with their parents . There are also concerns about the parenting skills and capacity of the parentsand about practical matters. For example, the parents have not arranged joint custody and the father has not recognized the children . In addition, the parents do not see the concerns sufficiently and have no need for help. Although the parents seem to be open to parenting support, it is difficult for care providers to see how the children are doing. A forced framework is thus still necessary, according to the council .


5.4
At the hearing, the GI stated that after the contested decision the family had been on the waiting list for a new family manager for some time. The current family manager has been involved with the family since October 2018. She has had two conversations with the parents so far . If the contested decision is ratified, the GI will further investigate the concerns about the children and the parenting skills of the parents and deploy outpatient assistance from the Oppoedpoli. There is also a waiting list of three to six months for this.


5.5
The court considers as follows.

From the documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal, among other things, the following emerged. The council became involved with the family in May 2017 after a report from the police about the underwriting of the minor . As during the criminal investigation into the minor there were serious concerns about him and about the family system, the council decided to extend the investigation to a protection investigation with regard to child A and child B. The council report of January 29, 2018 shows that the children 's upbringing environmentwas worrying at the time. After the minor was insured , the mother was emotionally and overburdened. The parents did not initially tell the children what was going on around the minor and the children 's school was not informed either. As a result, the children were insufficiently supported in missing their brother and, moreover, there was a risk that the children in the neighborhood would be confronted with what was going on around the minor . According to the council , there is also a very closed family system, for which child A and child B there is little room to express their thoughts and feelings and to ask questions. The parents have an 'overprotective' attitude and do not see the concerns sufficiently , according to the council . The youth worker of the GI in the contested decision to urge framework was involved in the family (and every week they came to the floor) shares the concerns of the council is not. According to him, the parents are very involved with the children and have sufficient pedagogical qualities. The parents and the childrenthey are not talkers, but they find sufficient support from each other. The additional report of 4 July 2018 and the proceedings at the hearing also showed that the parents have meanwhile told the children that the minor has done something bad and that he is therefore in prison. They also informed the school. The children visit the minor every week and experience the visits as pleasant. Moreover, more capacity has arisen among the parents . They acknowledge that they have gone through a difficult period and that they are emotional at the beginningand were overloaded. However, things are now improving and they are processing what has happened. The mother has sought psychological help. Finally, it appeared that the children are developing well . Both the council report of January 29, 2018 and the supplementary report of July 4, 2018 show that there are no child signals and that they are doing well at school. They regularly take boyfriends and girlfriends home and according to the parents the children feel free to ask questions and discuss everything.


5.6
In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal, unlike the court, is of the opinion that the grounds for taking the children into custody of the children have not been met at the time when the contested decision was issued, or at present . Although the court the defense investigation to the children given the situation with the minor understandable eight and the results of the board examination reason given for concern, the court considers that the concerns are not sufficiently secured to a serious threat to the development of children to to take. There are no child signals , the is doing wellin the opinion of the court, children at school and the parents have made it sufficiently plausible that they do communicate with the children . The youth worker of the GI which the contested decision before the family was involved, sharing the concerns of the council not. Furthermore, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has proved insufficient that the care required by the parents is not accepted and cannot take place within the voluntary framework. To this end, the Court of Appeal considered that in the past the parents themselves sought help for the minor and that they had a good working relationship with the formeryouth care worker of the GI. The GI also stated at the appeal hearing that the outpatient assistance provided by the Oppoedpoli can also take place in the voluntary framework and the parents have stated their willingness to cooperate. The court therefore assumes that the parents will do this in the interest of the children .


5.7
On the basis of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal will annul the contested decision now that the grounds for placing the children under supervision have not been met .


6 The decision
The court:

annul the decision whose appeal, and in so far as again:

rejects the preliminary request by the Board for the supervision of child A and child B;

requests the Registrar to send a copy of this decision to the Registrar of the District Court of Noord-Holland (location Haarlem), Civil Law Division, Family and Juvenile Law Team, for the attention of the public register pursuant to the provisions of the Authority Registers Decree .

This decision was made by AR Sturhoofd, GW Brands-Bottema and M Groenleer, in the presence of SCGA Duivenvoorde as Registrar, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 26 February 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 713