Content indication
Replacement permission for recognition. Mother's interests are not harmed in an undisturbed relationship with the child and the balanced social-psychological and emotional development of the child is not compromised. 1: 204 paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-09-24
Publication date
2019-12-17
Case number
200,256,397
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.256.397

(case number court Overijssel 218596)

decision of 24 September 2019

on

applicant,

living at a secret address,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: L. van Straten in G,

and

defendant,

residing in A,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: mr. RN Sahebdien.

The other interested party is considered to be:

mr. B , in the capacity of special liquidator ,

established in C,

further: the guardian ad litem .


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the order of the court of Overijssel, seat Almelo (hereinafter: the court), of 14 December 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number (hereinafter: the contested decision).


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

the appeal with productions, received on March 14, 2019;
the defense;
a journal report from mr. Van Straten of 13 August 2019 with productions, and
a journal report from Mr. Sahebdien of 23 August 2019 with production.

2.2
The oral hearing took place on 27 August 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. D appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board ). The guardian ad litem has also appeared.


3 The facts

3.1
The mother was born: the minor , in 2017 in E (further: the minor ). The mother only exercises parental authority over the minor .


3.2
On 5 September 2017, the minor was recognized by Mr F (hereinafter: F), residing in G.


3.3
By order of 27 June 2018, the court appointed mr. B as the guardian ad litem for the minor .


3.4
By order of 14 December 2018, the court granted the request of the guardian ad litem for annulment of the recognition made by F. No appeal has been lodged against this decision.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The recognition of the minor is in dispute between the parties . In the contested decision, the District Court granted the father 's request for substitution permission to recognize the minor . The father 's requests with regard to custody and contact have been honored and the council has been asked to investigate , report and advise on this. The decision on the costs of proceedings has also been reserved.


4.2
The mother appealed against the contested decision with one complaint. This complaint aims to present the full appeal to the court of appeal. The mother requests the court to annul the contested decision (the court understands: with regard to the recognition), and to reject the father 's request for replacement permission for recognition and to determine that each of the parties must pay its own costs of the proceedings. .


4.3
The father has put up a defense. He asks the court to ratify the decision that has been taken with regard to the permission granted for recognition, with the provision that the woman is sentenced to pay the costs in both instances.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Article 1: 204 paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code, the consent of the mother whose child has not yet reached the age of sixteen, or the consent of the child of twelve years or older , may be requested by the person who wants to recognize the child will be replaced by court permission, unless this harms the interests of the mother in an undisturbed relationship with the child or a balanced socio-psychological and emotional development of a child is compromised, provided that this person is the causative agent from thechild or the biological father of the child who is not the causative agent and who has a close personal relationship with the child .


5.2
In answering the question whether in this case the consent of the mother can be replaced, as requested by the father , it is a question of weighing the interests of the father , the mother and the minor in the intended recognition. The starting point here is that both the child and the causative person are entitled to have their relationship legally recognized as a family relationship. It is also in the mother 's interest that she can have an undisturbed relationship with her child . From damage to the interests of the childwithin the meaning of article 1: 204 paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code, there is only a question of recognition of the child as a real risk that the child will be hindered in a balanced social psychological and emotional development . A certain emotional resistance from the mother is insufficient to refuse replacement permission for recognition. This principle can be deviated from if it becomes clear that the resistance of the mother has negative consequences for the position of the child .


5.3
The mother states that the court wrongly granted substitute permission to recognize the minor . The mother does not consider recognition by the father to be in the best interests of the minor . By granting replacement permission to recognize the minor , the interests of the mother are harmed in an undisturbed relationship with the minor . Furthermore, the mother fears that the minor will be hindered in her social, emotional and psychological development . In support of her position, the mother argues that the father frequently visits the media to fight against parental rejection . This creates tension with the mother . The mother is also afraid that she is not sufficiently resistant to the father . The mother finds the father dominant. The mother states that the father stalked her in the past . Recognition of the minor by the fatherwill most likely cause an increase in anxiety and panic attacks in the mother .


5.4
The father disputes the mother 's statements . The father is the causative agent of the minor . the minor has an interest in establishing a family relationship between her and the father . That the mother experiences tension because the father is committed to the parental divorce issue was extensively discussed in the first instance. The mother does not explain on appeal why the court has incorrectly assessed this point. The mother has the tension complaintsnot supported. It is difficult to see why the media appearance of the father should lead to his request for replacement consent being rejected.

The mother 's assertion that she is insufficiently resilient to the father disputes the father and finds it unnecessarily offensive. The mother accuses the father of committing crimes. However, no declaration has been made and supporting documents have been submitted. The father states that he never stalked the mother . The father believes that the minor 's interest in reconciling the legal situation with biological reality and the father's interestin the event of acknowledgment, the interests of the mother must prevail .


5.5
At the hearing, the Council stated that it is important for the minor to bring the legal situation into line with biological reality, so that the minor gets clarity about her origin.


5.6
The guardian ad litem has stated at the hearing that she can agree with the decision of the court. It takes the view that the court's decision must be ratified.


5.7
After its own investigation , the Court of Appeal may agree with the court's considerations with regard to recognition and make it its own. In addition to this, the court considers the following.

The court considers it likely that there is stress symptoms in the mother which - co - related to the father , mainly in the media appearance of the father and the feeling of the mother are sufficiently resilient to facing him. The Court of Appeal considers it plausible that the mother also experiences unrest as a result of the legal proceedings regarding recognition, interaction and authority . This does not alter the fact that the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, in the absence of specific facts or circumstances, it has not been proven, or at least insufficient, that the substitute permission to recognize the interests of the motherin the event of an undisturbed relationship with the minor , harm will be caused to the balanced social, psychological and emotional development of the minor .

The mother has daily support from the Salvation Army . From the report of 27 December 2018 of the H study , it appears that a picture of the mother has emerged that is best suited to an autism spectrum disorder, which, according to the study, may be present with the mother from early childhood . This image leads to anxiety and panic attacks in the mother . The mother recognizes herself in the characteristics of autism. The mother is looking for suitable assistance for this. There are no indicationsthat the (legal proceedings regarding the) requested recognition has (have) affected the mother 's complaints . Moreover, the mother did not explain how they affect her relationship with the minor .


5.8
The complaints fail and the contested decision will be upheld.


5.9
The Court of Appeal will compensate the costs of proceedings on appeal, now that the parties have had a relationship with each other and the proceedings concern the child born from that relationship . The Court of Justice leaves the decision with regard to a possible order to pay costs of proceedings in first instance to the court, as stipulated in the operative part under III of the contested decision.


6 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the order of the court of Overijssel, seat Almelo, of December 14, 2018;

compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. EB Knottnerus, JB de Groot and H. Phaff, assisted by mr. AB de Wit as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 24 September 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 7762