Content indication
Main residence of children is changed from mother to father . Father is better able to step out of the very intense partner problem and also allow the children to contact the mother . Children support each other in the ongoing divorce struggle and need to grow up together. Care arrangements with the mother must be limited and supervised because of the behavior of the mother , who continues to fight over the backs of the children .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-09-05
Publication date
2019-09-19
Case number
200,250,059 / 01 and 200,261,086 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case numbers court of appeal 200.250.059 / 01 and 200.261.086 / 01

(Case numbers Court of Noord-Nederland C / 19/124088 / PARK 18-1696 and C / 18/190351 / JE RK 19-127)

decision of 5 September 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A,

applicant on appeal (in both cases),

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. RW de Gruijl in Rotterdam,

identified as stakeholders:


1 the father ,
residing in B,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: GJ Zwolle in Steenwijk, the Netherlands,

2. the certified institution

Salvation Army Youth Protection & Probation Foundation ,

established in Groningen,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI,


3 the receiver ,
office in C,

to be called further: the special liquidator .


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decisions of the juvenile court in the Northern Netherlands court, location Assen, of 23 May 2018 and 24 October 2018, and location Groningen, of 21 May 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.


2 The appeal proceedings
in the case with case number 200.250.059 / 01 (change of main residence and change of care scheme )


2.1
The Court of Appeal refers to its interim decision of 20 December 2018, in which the Court has appointed a special liquidator . Afterwards it was received ::

- the statement of defense of mr. Zwolle with production (s);

- a letter from mr. De Gruijl of 11 April 2019 with production (s);

- a report with accompanying letter from the guardian ad litem of 3 May 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Zwolle of 29 May 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 17 June 2019. The parents have appeared, assisted by their lawyers. Mrs D and Mrs E appeared on behalf of the GI . The guardian ad litem has also appeared.


2.3
During that meeting of June 17, 2019 revealed the existence of new facts and circumstances in the sense that during the proceedings on appeal by order of May 21, 2019 the juvenile court in the Northern District Court Netherlands, location Groningen care scheme(again) has been changed. Mr. De Gruijl has announced its intention to (also) appeal against this decision of 21 May 2019 and that this appeal will not contain any new arguments other than those already put forward in the case with case number 200.250.059 / 01. Due to the mutual coherence and for pragmatic reasons, the interested parties in that case refrained from hearing and it was agreed at the hearing that the court will await the (written) documents in that case and then decide on both cases.

in the case with case number 200.261.086 / 01 (change in care scheme )


2.4
The course of the procedure appears from: - the appeal with production (s), received on 20 June 2019; - the statement of defense by mr. Zwolle with production (s), received on 4 July 2019; - the statement of defense of the guardian ad litem , received on July 22, 2019; - a journal report from mr. Zwolle of 20 June 2019 with production (s); - a journal report from mr. De Gruijl of 17 July 2019 with production (s); - a letter from the GI of 17 July 2019 with production (s).


3 The facts

3.1
From now through 2015 divorce dissolved marriage in 2008 minderjarige1 (hereinafter: the minderjarige1) and minderjarige2 (hereinafter: the minderjarige2) born in 2010. The parents are jointly responsible for the authority over the minor1 and the minor2.


3.2
the minor1 and the minor2 have been under supervision , except for a short interruption, since 20 August 2015, which measure was last extended until 8 November 2019.


3.3
By order of 26 July 2017, the principal place of residence of the minor1 and the minor2 was determined by the mother and a care arrangement was established whereby the minor1 and the minor2 stay with the father once every fourteen days from Friday afternoon to Wednesday morning and during part of the holidays and special days.


3.4
By petition of 5 April 2018, the GI asked the juvenile court judge to change the aforementioned care arrangement in the sense that the contact between the father and the children is temporarily stopped. The mother lodged a defense against this request and also submitted an independent request for a change (temporary cessation) of the care scheme . The father put forward a defense at the hearing. Pending these procedures, contact between the father and the children has been temporarily suspended with the father's consent .


3.5
The Juvenile Court by order of May 23, 2018 F (hereafter referred to as the former special guardian ) appointed guardian ad litem for the minderjarige1 and minderjarige2 and thereby has a hearing of the parties at the hearing behind closed doors determined for further consideration on September 13, 2018 on the House. The guardian ad litem is requested no later than ten days before the aforesaid hearing, the juvenile court in writing of its findings and thereby to take a position on the current care arrangement .


3.6
By petition of 30 August 2018, the former special bankruptcy trustee submitted a report and requested the juvenile court judge to amend the decision of 26 July 2017 and to provide that:

I. the minor1 and the minor2 will from now on have their principal residence with the father ;

II. a care and contact arrangement will apply whereby the minor1 and the minor2 will stay with the mother once every fortnight from Friday afternoon 5.30 pm to Sunday evening 5.30 pm ;

- during the summer holidays during the first three weeks with the father and the last three

stay with the mother for weeks , which arrangement changes over the following years;

- stay with the mother during the autumn holiday ;

- stay with the mother in the first week of the May holiday;

- during the Christmas holidays during the first week with the father and the second

week with the mother , which arrangement changes over the following years;

- and in which the visit weeks during the holidays always start and end on

Friday afternoon at 5.30 p.m., unless the contact weekend of the children with the mother is in accordance with the continuous weekend arrangement, in which case the holiday week ends on Sunday afternoon at 5.30 p.m.

or at least that the child's right-hand determines a care and contact arrangements, such as the children's judge this

in the interests of the minor1 and the minor2.


3.7
At the session of 13 September 2018 before the juvenile court , the GI received its request from

April 5, 2018 withdrawn and joined the request of the former guardian ad litem . The mother has maintained her request. The father has joined the request of the guardian ad litem in addition to (also) a stay of the children with him during the spring break.


3.8
By order of 24 October 2018, the juvenile court judge (in short) granted the request of the former guardian ad litem (and understands it to the court :) supplementing a stay of the children with the father during the spring break and rejecting the independent request of the mother .


3.9
By petition of 20 February 2019, the GI asked the juvenile court judge to change the care arrangement, in the sense that supervised interaction takes place between the mother and the children for two hours every two weeks .

4. The scope of the dispute


4.1
The (change of the) primary residence of the minor1 and the minor2 and the (change of the) care scheme are in dispute .

in the case with number 200.250.059 / 01


4.2
By the contested decision of 24 October 2018 (with amendment to the decision of 26 July 2017), enforceable in stock, the principal residence of the minor1 and the minor2 was determined at the father's and a care and contact arrangement was established whereby the minor1 and the minor2 :

- once every fourteen days from Friday afternoon at 5.30 pm to Sunday evening at 5.30 pm

stay with the mother ;

- stay with the father during the spring break ;

- during the summer holidays during the first three weeks with the father and the last three

stay with the mother for weeks , which arrangement the following years each time

changes;

- stay with the mother during the autumn holiday ;

- stay with the mother in the first week of the May holiday;

- during the Christmas holidays during the first week with the father and the second

week with the mother , which arrangement changes over the following years;

- and in which the visit weeks during the holidays always start and end on

Friday afternoon at 5.30 pm, unless the contact weekend of the children at the

in accordance with the ongoing weekend arrangement, in which case

the holiday week ends on Sunday afternoon at 5.30 p.m.


4.3
The mother appealed against the contested decision with one complaint. This complaint seeks to fully address the dispute on appeal. The mother requests the court to annul the decision of 24 October 2018 and to decide as follows: primarily the request by the guardian ad litem for the principal residence of the

children at the father to determine yet reject, or immediately the main residence of the minors (again) to the parent to determine, in the alternative, the application of the special guardian to the principal residence of the minors to the father to determine yet down to to the extent that it is aimed at the minor2, or to determine (immediately) the principal place of residence of the minor2 with the mother , and also to determine, alternatively , that the minor2 at the weekend of week 1father resides and the minor1 with the mother . In the weekend of week 2, both children stay with one of the parents . In the weekend of week 3, the minor2 stays with the mother and the minor1 with the father . In the weekend of week 4, the children stay with the other parent than in the weekend of week 2. The distribution of the holidays and public holidays will remain the same as already determined by the juvenile court judge .


4.4
The father puts forward a defense and asks the court to reject the mother 's requests and to ratify the contested decision.


4.5
The guardian ad litem requests the court to reject the mother 's requests .

in the case with case number 200.261.086 / 01


4.6
In the contested decision, declared enforceable in stock, of 21 May 2019, the children 's court amended the contested decision of 24 October 2018 at the request of the GI, enforceable in stock, in the sense that the minor1 and the minor2 once every fourteen days for two days have hours of supervised contact with the mother , whereby dates and times and possible expansion of the contacts are determined by the GI .


4.7
The mother appealed against the contested decision. It aims to fully address the dispute on appeal. The mother requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision and primarily to reject the initial request of the GI to change the care scheme , or alternatively to grant the request of the GI only for a temporary duration, namely a maximum of three months, rejecting the remainder of the request.


5 The reasons for the decision
Change of main residence


5.1
The dispute is whether a change in the main residence is in the interest of the children . The Court of Appeal answers that question in the affirmative and agrees with the judgment of the juvenile court in this regard. On appeal, no facts or circumstances were put forward that lead to a different opinion. The Court of Appeal refers to the statement of reasons for the juvenile court in this matter, takes over after its own investigation , makes it his own and adds the following.


5.2
It is clear that there is a serious disorder between the parents . The fact that the parents have not been able to consult with each other constructively about the children is evident from the countless legal procedures (about the most basic things) that have taken place , requests for revenge, written instructions , care reports, incidents of violence (between the father and mothers partner G), reports to each other, police intervention in the presence of the children and the temporary lack of contact between the children and one of the parents . It has been established that the children have been burdened for years by the severely disturbed understanding and lack of cooperation between their parents and suffer severely from this. Various care providers and schools have shown great concern about their development and well-being. In November 2016, the children were (again) placed under the supervision of the GI because they have entered into a major loyalty conflict in which they display complaint behavior. Despite all the assistance deployed, in a voluntary and non-voluntary context, to improve the situation, the parents have not been able to adjust their visions and to come closer together. On the contrary, the understanding has only deteriorated. The former guardian ad litem has indicated that the constant conflict between the parents , the changes between the different parenting styles and the many fights in fetching and bringing a serious threat to the development of the children . Because the children suffer from the situation and soon something had to change, the juvenile court hasthe request of the former guardian ad litem to determine the principal place of residence of the children from now on with the father , and to establish a weekend arrangement with the mother , allocated, hoping for more peace and relaxation for the children .


5.3
The (current) guardian ad litem of the children has conducted an extensive and very careful investigation and he supports the decision of the juvenile court judge after his own investigation . Although, according to him, both parents are responsible for the stalemate and the concerns regarding the children , the father appears to be further in handling the partner problem, making it easier for him to step out of the fight with the necessary support and to motivate the children. Contact to have with the mother . In the report of the guardian ad litemFrom 3 May 2019, it is confirmed that the parents are unable to cooperate in the best interests of the children and that they continue to involve the children in their disputes. It is according to the special guardian of great importance that the parents put the past to rest and to focus on their role as a parent so the children back child may have and enjoy their childhood. From the conversations that the guardian ad litem has had with the children , it appears that they are ready for rest, are ready with all investigations and have the explicit wish that thefather and mother act 'normally' against each other. In the first interview with the guardian ad litem (and an orthopedagogue), the minor2 had a mantra ('I have to live with mum') and it was not possible to gain deeper contact. Her closed attitude has diminished in the course of the conversations as well as the resistance to her stay with the father . She does miss the mother (and her nursing ponies and friends) and wants to see her more often. the minor1 has responded to the fight by focusing on one parent (the father ) and turning against the other (the mother and her partner).


5.4
A recent report from H, dated 4 March 2019, also shows serious concerns about the development of the minor2 and the minor1 because they cannot have untaxed contact with their parents . after the change of her main residence, the minor2 has difficulty adapting to the new situation and finding her place in the family, which is reflected in her behavior. She needs to be seen and heard and her self-image needs to be worked on. Among the minor1, positive developments in his behavior have been seen since joining the fatherlives: he is more open, seeks more contact and takes initiative. The conclusions in I's research report on the minor1, dated 22 March 2019, show that he has been insufficiently provided for in his basic needs (safety, recognition, appreciation) from an early age and that his cognitive processes have not been sufficiently developed because he is constantly is (was) busy 'surviving. As a result, he shows certain behavior: anger , fear or is he flat in emotion , not very self-reliant and there is a backlog in his identity development. The parents both want the best for the minor1 but from their struggle and worries about him they actually increase his inner selfconflict , the report shows.


5.5
In view of all the findings of various professionals, the Court of Appeal finds that the attitude and behavior of the parents have caused the minor 1 and the minor 2 to be completely trapped and lost. The children notice that their parents , who they love and depend on, disqualify each other . In fact, the parents thereby also (partly) disqualify children who are unable to develop carelessly and can not be openly loyal to both parents, which is very sad and very harmful to them. The Court of Appeal is also of the opinion that the situation should be broken. the minor1 and the minor2 have been living with their father for almost a year now and he has been able to offer them a stable and safe educational climate. After a period of getting used to, especially for the minor2, the situation is now normalized according to the father and according to the GI and school the children are doing well with the father . after the summer vacation, the minor1 will (finally) go to a new (regular) school where he can go by bike. The Court of Appeal considers (again) a change in the actual current situation, which again causes unrest, resistance andtension , obviously not in the interest of the children . In addition, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there is insufficient reason, also in the absence of substantiation, to determine the minor residence2's main residence differently from that of the minor1, as the mother (in the alternative) has requested. The fact that the minor2 indicates that she would prefer to live with her mother is insufficient for this. As the mother herself states in her appeal, it cannot be excluded that the opinion of the children is dictated by the loyalty conflict in which they find themselves. The childrenare attached to each other and, despite the usual quarrels between brother and sister, support each other in this ongoing divorce struggle . The Court of Appeal believes it is in their interest to imitate the guardian ad litem that they can continue to grow up together.


5.6
The Court of Appeal concludes that it is in the best interests of the minor1 and the minor2 that they have their principal place of residence with the father and will therefore ratify the decision on this point.

Change of care scheme (200.250.059 / 01)


5.7
The court will (subsidiary) request from the mother regarding care arrangements , as set out in the contested decision of October 24, 2018, rejected. The Court of Appeal finds the regulation as requested by the mother on appeal for reasons such as the above and hereafter stated to be contrary to the weighty interests of the children . The children currently benefit most from rest and clarity, and this does not include a weekend arrangement that is designed differently each week and in which the children are taken apart. Also the particularly poor relationship between the parentsmeans that such an arrangement is not possible. After all, such an arrangement requires a great deal of coordination, while it is certain that the parents are unable to do so.

Change of care scheme (200.261.086 / 01)


5.8
The established in the contested decision of October 24, 2018 care arrangements between the mother and the children of a weekend every fortnight by the contested decision of May 21, 2019, at the request of the GI, changed to a supervised care arrangement of two hours per two weeks . The court agrees with this judgment of the juvenile court judge . On appeal, no facts or circumstances were put forward that lead to a different opinion. The Court of Appeal refers to the statement of reasons for the juvenile court judge in the contested decision, adopts it after its own investigation , makes it its own and adds the following.


5.9
In short, the mother argued that the limitation of the care scheme does not take sufficient account of the concerns and interests of the children . It is claimed the mother is not well with the children at the father and minderjarige2 misses the mother so there will be no peace in the current summary care regime . In this way she also cannot restore her bond with the minor1.


5.10
The GI has indicated that constructive communication with the mother is not possible because she refutes everything and does not adhere to agreements, while concerns about interaction have increased. Since the children live with the father, there has been a lot of unrest with the mother and several incidents have occurred, as a result of which the GI was forced to intervene. According to the GI, the mother continues to fight over the backs of the children . The impression exists, given the statements of the childrenand information from school and social services that the mother instructs and encourages the minor2 to wish to live with the mother and that she puts pressure on the children (she overrides the children and promises gifts, for example). Friends of the mother made reports to J and the mother contacted the sex police and made suspicions of sexual abuse with the minor2. The detective involved has indicated that the way the mother approaches this - the motherhas been taking pictures for months of the minor2 her sexual organ - is harmful. According to the GI, the mother does not realize what all this does to the minor2 (her social-emotional and sexual development ). The children are exposed to situations that are unclear and unpredictable to them, so that they do not find peace and a sense of security with the father , while the minor's resistance1 towards the mother only increases. The family coaches (van H) share the GI's concerns about the mother 's attitude and influence and understand, in view of the latest observations and the pattern that the mother shows, that the contacts are now being supervised . The guardian ad litem has indicated that when the children suffer from the contacts, or at least the children are pulled and a safe situation cannot be created, the interests of the children must come first. From the last conversations the special curator has had with the children (in May and June 2019) it follows that they are slowly coming to rest and feel more room for contact with the mother. According to him, this is because someone is watching during intercourse, so that the mother focuses primarily on her role as a parent instead of fighting against institutions.


5.11
The court finds it positive to read that the supervised moments of interaction between the children and the mother go well. It is not disputed in this case that it is in their interest for the personality formation and development of the children that they have (structural) contact with both their parents . The court understands that the mother misses the children , but also finds that she continues to pull on the children and her own share in what happened between her and the father and the influence of this on the child.acknowledges children insufficiently. The struggle that she fights to "protect" the children against the father makes a very strong appeal to their loyalty to the mother . In light of all the foregoing, the Court finds that an (immediate) resumption of the previously established care arrangements with the mother (still) is not in the interest of the minderjarige1 and minderjarige2. The structure of the care arrangements must be carefully place regarding the minderjarige1 so that there is room for the contact with the motherand to reduce its resistance to it. The court considers that the GI, which in this area has the necessary expertise, capabilities and needs of the children regarding the next step in the development and implementation of the care regime can estimate the best. This depends on the developments in the mutual relationship between the parents , the cooperation with the GI and the way in which the children respond to intercourse . The court hopes that now there is clarity about the main residence of the children more space can be created on both sides to make further agreements and to look ahead.


5.12
The foregoing leads the Court to ratify the contested decision of 21 May 2019. The court also sees no reason for the length of the changed care arrangements to shorten as the mother (alternative) requested. First steps must be taken in the way the parents treat each other.

Expert investigation


5.13
The court of appeal rejects the request for an NIFP or council investigation, as requested by the mother (in both cases), because the court considers such an investigation to be contrary to the important interests of the minor1 and the minor2. The Court of Appeal takes into account that in recent times many investigations and by various professionals have taken place in which the parents and also the children have been involved. The Court of Appeal took those findings into account in its judgment and the Court of Appeal therefore considered itself sufficiently informed. The children need peace and clarity.


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the court will decide as follows.


7 The decision
The court of appeal, having an appeal;

in the case with case number 200.250.059 / 01

endorses the decision of the juvenile court in the Northern Netherlands court, location Assen, of 24 October 2018, to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court of appeal;

in the case with case number 200.261.086 / 01

endorses the decision of the juvenile court in the Northern Netherlands court, location Groningen, of 21 May 2019;

in both case numbers:

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. IA Vermeulen, MP den Hollander and JL Roubos, assisted by E. Klijn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 5 September 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 7283