Content indication
grounds for placing under supervision no longer exist
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-07
Publication date
2019-05-14
Case number
200.252.361 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.252.361 / 01

Court case number: C / 15/279239 / JU RK 18-1718

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 7 May 2019 concerning:

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. JJ Boekhout in Zeist,

and

Child Protection Board ,

established in Haarlem,

respondent on appeal,

to be called: the council .

The following are considered as other stakeholders:

- the certified Salvation Army Youth Protection and Probation Institution (hereinafter referred to as: the GI);

- the minor (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in the Noord-Holland court (location Alkmaar) (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ) of 8 October 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 7 January 2019 against the decision of 8 October 2018.


2.2
The council submitted a statement of defense on 22 February 2019.


2.3
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a journal report from the mother of 14 March 2019 with appendices, received on 15 March 2019;

- a journal report from the mother of 19 March 2019 with appendices, received on 20 March 2019.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 3 April 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the board , represented by Mr. V. Aelbers;

- a session representative on behalf of the GI.

The father (hereafter: the father ) also appeared as an informant by the court.


3 The facts
From the (now broken) relationship of the mother and the father , the minor was born in 2018.

The father has recognized the minor . The mother only exercises authority over the minor . the minor stays with the mother .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
By the contested decision, the juvenile court placed the minor under the supervision of the GI for a period of one year with effect from 8 October 2018 , in accordance with the request of the Council .


4.2
The mother requests, with the annulment of the contested decision, primarily to reject the introductory request of the council and, in the alternative, to grant supervision under supervision for a period of three months, at least for such a period as the court will consider appropriate.


4.3
The Council requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Article 1: the right to a 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW) minor under supervision asking a certified institution when minors so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and;

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
The mother states that the conditions of Article 1: 255 of the Dutch Civil Code are not met. Initially, she did not oppose being placed under supervision because the breaking of the relationship with the father - around the birth of the minor - caused a lot of tensions and worries and the mother could use help. However, she is now doing better; she has found her own home in the neighborhood of her mother , who supports her. Since February 2018 the mother gothome assistance from Tzorg, initially 24 hours a day and four hours a day at the time of the appeal. Her personal counselor at Tzorg did not consider it necessary to extend the indication from February 2019. The mother refers in that context to Tzorg's observation reports. In addition, In Connection has been involved with the mother since the minor was born . They, too, no longer have any worries and have since stopped counseling , paying attention to the parenting skills of the mother . Therefore, it cannot be said that there is insufficient insight into the home situation of the minor and the parenting skills of the mother .

The mother acknowledges that there is no communication between the father and her. The father does not inquire about the minor . Without communication there is no question of conflict. The mother can agree to supervised interaction between the minor and the father . However, guidance and mediation can be provided within the voluntary framework. At the hearing on appeal, the mother stated that she is willing to accept help in the pressure framework and that she is thinking ofparenting mediation at MEE & de Wering.

The mother has realized interaction between the minor and her half-sister (father's side) half-sister.

Finally, the mother notes that she does not see the added value of being placed under supervision . She barely hears anything from the family guardian and no action plan has been drawn up.


5.3
According to the council , it is too early to end the supervision order now that the GI has not yet been able to achieve all its objectives. This is mainly due to the GI, which has been unable to pick up the supervision of the mother and the minor due to the pressure . The improvement of communication between the parents and the start of an access arrangement between the minors and the father are the main goals that under a supervision orderstill to be worked. Furthermore, the handling of the minor with a half-sister must be supervised .

Tzorg, who unfortunately had to stop his counseling, does not see any problems in the home situation of the mother , but thereby overlooks that there is no interaction between the minor and the father . For In Connection there was no reason to continue the assistance , because there was no contact between the parents . It appears that interaction did not take place in the voluntary framework.

At the hearing on appeal, the council asked to limit the duration of supervision of children under supervision . If a family manager is appointed in the short term who is given a specific instruction to start the intercourse and to provide assistance or mediation for the mother and father , the supervision may be terminated in two to three months. Following the contact between the father and the minor can then be done in an urge framework .


5.4
The GI session representative acknowledged at the appeal hearing that there has been no contact between the GI and the mother in the recent period . The positive reports from Tzorg and In Connection show that the mother is now doing better than when the request for supervision was made ; at the time there was more uncertainty. The GI has found that the worries about the minor and the mother have decreased, but that concern about the contact between the minor and the father still exists. If the motherand the father both cooperate, can the guidance of handling the urge framework offered.


5.5
At the hearing on appeal, the father promised to cooperate in providing assistance in the voluntary framework. He does not, however, have any confidence that the mother will cooperate, since she did not do so before and the relationship has even stopped altogether. The father has not seen the minor for more than a year. As part of a supervision order , there are more tools for starting the relationship , such as giving a written instruction to the mother .


5.6
It is up to the court of appeal to determine whether the grounds for placing a person under supervision were present at the time of the contested decision and whether those grounds are still present today.

In the opinion of the court of appeal, the juvenile court judge correctly and on good grounds placed the minor under supervision . Both in her appeal and at the hearing on appeal, the mother acknowledged that she had a difficult time around the birth of the minor , inter alia due to the breaking of the relationship with the father , and that part of the concerns identified by the council visit was for any reason they initially did not oppose the supervision order . From the council report of August 22, 2018 it appears that the hospital where the mother gave birth to theminor has made a care report because the mother was verbally aggressive and the minor showed withdrawal symptoms due to the mother 's smoking during pregnancy. There were also concerns about the availability of the parents , because they were occupied by emotions , tensions and struggles after the end of their relationship. the minor did not have regular contact with the father and there was no insight into the home situation of the mother . It was unclear to what extent the taxed past and the personal problems of themother and father influenced their parenting skills, for which reason the council wanted a personality test to be carried out. As the minor was vulnerable and completely dependent on her fighting, tense parents because of her very young age , the situation was unsafe for her. Since the deployment of voluntary assistance also yielded insufficient results, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal the juvenile court judge was right to consider that there was a serious development threat that required intervention by means of supervision .


5.7
Partly due to the deployment of the care provided by Tzorg and In Connection, however, insight has been gained since then on the home situation of the mother , as well as on her parenting skills and her availability for the minor . Both bodies terminated the assistance after it became apparent that the necessity for this was no longer present because the mother had sufficient parenting capacities. In the evaluation report of February 2019, the personal counselor of Tzorg states that the mother is very capable of completing her life independently. The minor is also doing well. That the minor is developing well , is confirmed by the consultation office (in the progress report of 6 February 2019) and the general practitioner (in a written statement of 7 February 2019).

In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, given the above, it does not appear that there is still a specific, serious development threat from the minor . The only concern lies in the fact that the minor and the father have not been in contact for a year and that no access arrangements have been established. Not to mention that the mere circumstance that no access arrangement between the minor and the father has been established since 6 April 2018 does not provide a sufficient basis for imposing a drastic measure such as being placed under supervision , the Court of Appeal finds that themother has developed positively according to the evaluation report from Tzorg . Moreover, as she, like the father , has repeatedly promised at the hearing on appeal that he will cooperate in assisted contact , the Court of Appeal assumes that this can and will be started in the pressure framework .

In view of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal concludes that the grounds for being placed under supervision are no longer present. The Court of Appeal will therefore reject the request of the council to place the minor under supervision insofar as this relates to the duration of the measure after now.


5.8
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

endorses the decision, the appeal of which has placed the minor under the supervision of the GI for the period from 8 October 2018 to the present;

Rejects the introductory request by the Council regarding the supervision of the minor for the period from now until 8 October 2019;

declares this decision enforceable from stock;

rejects the more or otherwise requested;

requests the clerk to send a copy of this decision to the clerk of the court of Noord-Holland (location Alkmaar), civil law department, family and juvenile law team for the attention of the public register under the provisions of the Decision on authority registers.

This decision was made by JMC Louwinger-Rijk, AVT de Bie and L. van Dijk, assisted by FJE van Geijn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 7 May 2019. .

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 1615