Content indication
out-of-home placement with the father without authority . There is persistent insecurity of the children in the home situation with the mother and educational inability with her. Inside the home placement need not be applied in this particular situation reintegration with the mother . The children are doing well with the father's circumstances .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-14
Publication date
2019-02-20
Case number
200.249.346 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.249.346 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/162138 / FJ RK 18-690)

decision of 14 February 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: P. van Bommel, Franeker, LL.M.

and

the child protection council ,

Northern Netherlands region, Leeuwarden location,

respondent on appeal,

to be called: the council .

The following are considered as other stakeholders:


1 the certified institution
Salvation Army Youth Protection & Probation Foundation ,

location Leeuwarden,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI,


2 the father ,
residing in B,

to be called further: the father .


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of 10 August 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on November 7, 2018;

- a letter from the Council of 6 December 2018;

- a letter from the GI of 14 December 2018;

- a journal report from mr. Van Bommel of 19 December 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Van Bommel of 4 January 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on January 21, 2019. The mother has appeared, assisted by her lawyer. Mr. C appeared on behalf of the council . Mrs D and Mrs E appeared on behalf of the GI . The father has also appeared.


3 The facts

3.1
From the now broken relationship between the parents , in 2008 the minor was born1 (hereinafter: the minor1) and in 2011 the minor2 (hereinafter the minor2). The mother is solely responsible for the custody of the children . The father has recognized the children .


3.2
the minor1 and the minor2 went to live with the mother after the parents split up in 2014 and had an access arrangement with the father for a weekend once every two weeks and, in consultation, part of the school holidays.


3.3
the minor1 and the minor2 have been living with the father since the end of August 2018 and spend a weekend with the mother once every two weeks .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the event of a dispute, supervision and authorization to place the minor 1 and the minor 2 out of home is with the father . By the contested decision, declared enforceable in stock, of 10 August 2018, the juvenile court judge placed the minor 1 and the minor 2 under the supervision of the GI for the period of one year, until 10 August 2019, and authorized the GI to remove both children from the home places with the parent without authority , the father , for the same period.


4.2
The mother appealed against the contested decision with two complaints. These complaints are intended to raise the full scope of the appeal. The mother requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision in so far as the complaints are directed to do so, or at least to annul the contested decision and - enforceable in stock - to do justice again as the Court of Appeal considers correct.


4.3
At the hearing, the Council submitted an oral defense and requested that the contested decision be ratified.


4.4
The GI shares the Council's view that the supervision and the authorization of placement of the minor1 and the minor2 with the father should be maintained with the father .


4.5
At the hearing, the father stated that he supported the supervision and the authorization of placement of the minor1 and the minor2.


5 The reasons for the decision
Hearing of minors


5.1
The mother has asked the court of appeal to hear the minor1 and the minor2. The court considers as follows.


5.2
Pursuant to Article 809 (1) of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv), in cases involving the placement of a minor of twelve or older, this minor is given the opportunity to make his opinion known. The second sentence of the article gives the court the authority to also hear younger children , but the court does not see any reason to use this power in this case. In its judgment, the court takes the children into accountare only ten and eight years old and that hearing by the court will be taxing on them and will cause (again) unrest. Moreover, on the basis of the documents and the proceedings at the hearing, the Court of Appeal considered itself sufficiently informed to be able to make a decision.

The supervision order


5.3
The court may a 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW): Pursuant to Article 1 minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.4
The mother has no objection to being placed under supervision provided that the request for out-of- home placement with the father is (still) rejected and the children return to her. The mother is the primary caregiver and that should be the starting point for all actions and decisions to be made. The goals set by the council that need to be worked on and as laid down in the contested decision can only be achieved if the children live with her again.


5.5
The file, including the report of the council of 10 July 2018, shows that there is a long-term parenting problem in the mother's family . The mother has not been sufficiently able to limit and manage the children - especially the minor1. She does not respond sensitively, belittles the children and does not adequately match what the children need, so that they are emotionally short. Negative contact exists between the mother and the minor1, which regularly results in conflicts and disputes. Because of the tensionsand the feeling of powerlessness the mother shouts , pinches the children and sometimes gives them a slap. In particular, see the late minderjarige1 (this) unacceptable behavior and is developing not to its potential. She kicks the mother and scolds and challenges her. The minor1 also shows self-damaging behavior, she takes off her eyelashes and hair and scratches herself. the minor2 often witnesses the quarrels between the mother and the minor1 and he is beaten and bitten by the minor1. Because the contact between the parents is difficult and they - in the presence of the children- Negatively speaking about each other, the children also suffer from loyalty problems . At the beginning of 2017, two care reports were made by school at F because the minor2 regularly had scratches in his skin, his behavior changed negatively and the minor1 did not want to eat at school. The children also often came too late to school, made a nervous and absent impression and there were concerns about the relationship between the mother and the minor1.


5.6
The Court finds that almost immediately after the mother and the minor1 and the minor2 moved from Groningen to Friesland , there was unrest in the family with the mother . When the minor1 was three years old, the mother put out a first request for help in connection with concerns about the behavior of the minor1. Since then, various aid organizations have been involved with the family. In 2013, pedagogical assistance was introduced to reduce the stress on the mother and the interaction between the minor1 and the motherto improve. In 2015, the minor1 was registered with the school social work. Video-home training was started in 2016 and the minor1 was registered for psychological research at G, but no indications were found for psychiatric problems. At the end of 2016, at the request of the mother, H creative therapy was used for the minor1. In March 2017, Network psychologists conducted research into problems in the form of ADHD among the minor1, but this diagnosis has not been made. It has been found that it is through the motherperceived busy and rebellious behavior of the minor1 seems to be related to system problems. In response to the care reports from the school, short-term outpatient support from Youth Assistance Friesland was deployed in March 2017 to gain insight into the home situation. However, this has not caused a change. Intensive outpatient educational support with video home training was then used between June 2017 and March 2018, but this also did not produce the desired result, namely creating a safe home situation for the children . At the beginning of January 2018, the minor1 was registered with I, youth and dyslexia care. The I report of 30 January 2018 shows that it is a long-term and complex oneproblems and that the behavioral problems and rising frustrations of the minor1 seem to be related to systematic unrest. Both the area team, Jeugdhulp Friesland, F and the council are of the opinion that assistance in the voluntary framework has proved insufficient and that follow-up action is needed.


5.7
The Court of Appeal concluded that on the basis of the documents and what emerged during the oral hearing, the Court of Appeal, despite the assistance provided, has not improved the home situation of the mother in recent years and that concerns about the minor1 and the minor2 have only increased. There is continuing insecurity of children in the home and educational impotence in the mother , making the children seriously in their development are threatened , particularly in terms of their socio-emotional developmentand behavior. The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that the grounds for being placed under supervision are present and that the legal requirements of Section 1: 255 (1) of the Dutch Civil Code have been met. In view of the nature and seriousness of the problem, the court sees no reason to grant supervision under supervision for a shorter period.

The authorization for out-of-home placement


5.8
Under Article 1: 265b, paragraph BW to juvenile court , the certified institution referred to in section 1.1 of the juvenile law, entrusted with the implementation of the supervision order , upon request, authorize the minor placing from home during the day and night if this is necessary in the interest of the care and upbringing of the minor or to investigate his mental or physical condition.


5.9
The mother can with home placement of minderjarige1 not unite minderjarige2 and performs end - in short - that the report of the Board measure of home placement insufficient support and that she has always been open to assistance and proper guidance care can take on for the children . In addition, the mother states that the placement with the father does not have the desired result because the children have fallen into an (even) greater loyalty conflict.


5.10
The Court of Appeal finds that an extensive investigation has been carried out by the Council, which has shown serious concerns about the development and parenting environment of the minor1 and minor2 with the mother (see legal consideration 5.4). The Court of Appeal has no reason to doubt the findings of the Council now that various aid agencies and informants have expressed similar concerns. Care notifications from school also endorse the council findings and the findings of the I. Ambulatory care providerMs J has been intensively involved in the mother 's family for quite some time in 2017/2018 and has concluded that the mother hardly shows any growth in her upbringing skills, that advice does not arrive or that she stays behind and that she mainly puts the cause of problems outside herself. In the end it was not possible to reach an agreement with the mother about the follow-up because she was not open to a family admission in K (as the last chance), in order to observe and if possible improve the interaction between her and the children .


5.11
The GI and the father indicated at the hearing of the court that the minor1 and the minor2 are doing well at the father's home due to circumstances . Also at school they have both found their way and made friends. Family counseling is involved in the father's family and the children are registered for therapy, which will start soon. The GI indicates that the father is cooperative and open and also asks for help himself if necessary. The mother argues that the placement with the father leads to parental alienationbecause she is kept out of the children 's lives by the father , and in particular the minor2 indicates that he would like to return to the mother . It is the court found that the parents , despite their mutual understanding, the contact between the children and the other parent support and be able to negotiate business and make arrangements. It has not been shown that the father keeps the children out of the mother 's life , on the contrary the father indicated at the hearing that he would like the mother to wantmoves back to Groningen in the interests of the children . The court notes that even if the children would want to return to the mother , as she states, the court does not consider this to be in their interest. The children were seriously threatened in their development in the home situation with the mother and now benefit most from the peace and stability offered by the father . The Court of Appeal agrees with the mother 's lawyer that in the event of an out-of- home placement it is in principle necessary to bet on a relocation , but does not consider it to be in the interest of these children , in view of all that has been considered above, to bet on it now. There is a special situation here where a choice has been made for placement with the other parent with whom, according to the documents, the children have a strong bond and with whom they have lived as a family in a familiar environment . The assistance provided has proved to be inadequate and the children now thrive well in the home situation of the father . The fact that the father has no authority at the moment does not change that. The fatherhas indicated that they will submit a request for joint authority (again) soon .


5.12
The Court of Appeal does not follow the mother in this regard in its proposition that the father as a parent without authority can not be qualified as a foster parent , since in the case of out-of- home placement , the possibilities of the other parent - with or without authority - and the network are always first considered . To the extent that the mother argues that the request of the council for out-of- home placement with a parent who is not charged with custodycannot be allocated due to the lack of a grant decision, the Court of Appeal considers that regardless of whether such a grant decision is necessary if it is placed with a parent who is not charged with custody (see also HR 28 September 2018 ECLI: NL: HR: 2018: 1797 ), in any case, Article 1: 265b paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code contains an exception to this requirement in the best interests of the child .


5.13
The Court of Appeal finds that the mother has proved insufficiently capable of offering the children an educational climate in which the continuity of and safety and rest in their daily care and upbringing is guaranteed. The well-being of the children has been a major concern for too long. The court reads and sees that the mother cares a lot about the children and that there is no question of unwillingness but of powerlessness to permanently improve the children 's upbringing situation. On the basis of the above judgment, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the grounds for out-of- home placementbe present and that the legal requirements of Section 1: 265b, first paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code have been met. In view of the nature and seriousness of the problem, the court does not see any reason to grant the authorization for out-of- home placement for a shorter period.


5.14
Insofar as the mother has invoked the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights (ECHR) and / or the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), the Court considers that the placement of the minor1 and the minor2 constitutes an infringement of her family life and / or private life, but that this infringement is provided for by law and in this case is deemed necessary in the interest of the care and upbringing of both children . The out-of- home placement of the minor1 and the minor2 is therefore not in conflict with the aforementioned treaty provisions.


5.15
The mother also requested that a further examination be ordered (by a remedial educationalist ) on the basis of Article 810a DCCP. The mother bases this request in particular on the fact that the father does not have sufficient skills to raise and care for the children independently. The court of appeal rules that the (parenting) situation of the father has been investigated further and that there are no indications in that direction. In addition, the father is intensively in the picture at several institutions and no negative signals are known from school either . The court considers such an investigationcontrary to the important interests of the minor1 and the minor2. The Court of Appeal takes into account that in recent years many investigations have already taken place in which the mother and the children (in particular the minor1) have been involved. The children have only been living with their father for a short time and the peace that they seem to have found here should not be disturbed again , partly in view of the therapy that will soon start for them. The court of appeal will therefore reject the above-mentioned request from the mother .


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal must ratify the contested decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the juvenile court in the Northern Netherlands court, location Leeuwarden, of 10 August 2018;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. MP den Hollander, IA Vermeulen and M. Weissink, assisted by E. Klijn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 14 February 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 1493