Content indication
Conviction for smearing paint and punctuation marks from car tires of ex-partner, his new girlfriend and her mother . Completely conditional punishment, because on the initiative of the ex-partner and his girlfriend, the case was broadly measured in the TV program “Betrapt” in a way that strongly resembles naming and shaming.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-12-03
Publication date
2019-12-06
Case number
23-000411-19
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
criminal law department

public prosecutor's office number: 23-000411-19

Date of judgment: December 3, 2019

Contradiction

Brief judgment of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal pointed to the appeal, brought against the judgment of the police judge in the Noord-Holland court of 24 January 2019 in the criminal case under public prosecutor's office number 15-178200-18 against

suspect ,

born in place of birth 1 on date of birth 1 1969,

address: address.

Investigation of the case
This judgment was delivered following the investigation at the hearing on appeal of

November 19, 2019.

An appeal has been lodged on behalf of the suspect against the aforementioned judgment.

The Court of Appeal has taken cognizance of the advocate general's claim and of what has been put forward by the suspect and the counselor .

Indictment
The accused has been charged with:

1. on or around 8 September 2018 in Nieuw-Vennep, municipality of Haarlemmermeer, deliberately and illegally several or at least one car tire (s) of a passenger car (Citroën C1, registration number 1), in any case any good, wholly or partly to a others, namely to the injured 1 and / or the injured 2 belonged, has been destroyed, damaged, rendered useless and / or disposed of;

2. on or about 19 July 2018 in Heemstede, deliberately and illegally, at least one car (s) (tires) of several and / or a passenger car (s) (Mercedes license plate 2) and / or (Volkswagen Golf license plate 3) and / or, in any case, any good that wholly or partially belonged to another person, namely to the injured person 4 and / or the injured person 2 and / or the injured person 3, has been destroyed, damaged, rendered useless and / or disposed of;

3. on or about 26 July 2018 in Heemstede, deliberately and illegally several or at least one passenger car (Mercedes Cabrio SLK 200 / roadster license plate 4), in any case any good that wholly or partly belonged to another, namely to injured 2 , has been destroyed, damaged, disabled and / or disposed of;

Insofar as language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, the court will read them in an improved way. The suspect is therefore not harmed in the defense.

Verdict whose appeal
The judgment whose appeal will be set aside because it has only been recorded in accordance with Article 378a of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

Proof of declaration
The Court of Appeal considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the accused committed the charges under 1, 2 and 3, on the understanding that:

1. on 8 September 2018 in Nieuw-Vennep, it intentionally and unlawfully destroyed the tires of a passenger car (Citroën C1, registration number 1) that belonged to injured party 1.

2. on 19 July 2018 in Heemstede, it deliberately and illegally destroyed passenger car tires (Mercedes license plate 2 and Volkswagen Golf license plate 3), which belonged to injured 4 or injured 3 respectively.

3. On 26 July 2018 in Heemstede, it intentionally and unlawfully damaged a passenger car (Mercedes Cabrio SLK 200, registration number 4) that belonged to injured party 2.

What has been charged more or differently under 1, 2 and 3 has not been proven. The suspect must be acquitted of this.

The proven evidence is based on the facts and circumstances that are contained in the means of evidence, such as these will be included in the supplement to this judgment after the possible appeal in cassation.

Punishability of the proven
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the punishability of the proven proven under 1, 2 and 3, so that this is punishable.

The certified under 1 provides:

intentionally and unlawfully destroy any good wholly or partly to another.

The certified proven under 2 yields:

intentionally and unlawfully destroy any good wholly or partly to another,

committed several times.

The certified proven under 3 yields:

deliberately and unlawfully damage any good that wholly or partly belongs to another.

Punishability of the suspect
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the suspect's punishability with regard to the proven proven under 1, 2 and 3, so that the suspect is punishable.

Imposition of punishment
The police judge in the Noord-Holland court sentenced the suspect for the evidence proven in the first instance under 1, 2 and 3 to a community service for 60 hours, to be replaced by 30 days in custody and to a fully suspended prison sentence for the duration of 6 weeks, with a probationary period of 2 years. Special conditions were set for compliance with a duty to report to the probation service, undergoing treatment (VERS training and individual treatment process) at the center for outpatient forensic psychiatry De Waag, a prohibition on contact with the injured person 2, the injured person 3 and the injured person. 1 and a ban is within a radius 500 meters from the home addresses of injured 2 and injured 1.

The Advocate General has requested that the accused for the charges under 1, 2 and 3 be sentenced to community service for a period of 80 hours, of which 40 are conditional, with a probationary period of 2 years, and that the same special conditions are set when first instance is done.

On appeal, the Court of Appeal determined the punishment to be imposed on the basis of the seriousness of the facts and the circumstances in which they were committed and in view of the person of the suspect, taking particular account of the following.

The suspect was guilty of vandalism by puncturing the tires of three cars used by her ex-partner, his new girlfriend and her mother , and the damage to another car of the new girlfriend by painting it with paint . The suspect has arrived at her acts of resentment towards her ex-partner, but has therefore also celebrated her frustrations with relative outsiders. The suspect thus infringed the property rights of the victims and caused them financial damage. Moreover, such destruction causes feelings of unrest among the victims, but also for the other residents of the residential areas where those vehicles were parked. Commits in similar casesa substantial community service. The fine advocated by the counselor in a case such as this cannot therefore be seen as an appropriate penalty.

According to a report from the psychologist's name of 18 December 2018, the suspect is suffering from a borderline personality disorder. Its personality structure has contributed significantly to the realization of the charges. The suspect is advised to attribute the facts to a lesser extent. Now that the conclusions of the expert are supported by its findings, the court adopts them and makes them his. This means that the court of appeal imputes the proven facts to a lesser extent. This has a moderating effect on the punishment to be imposed. Taking this into account, the court considers that a community service order of 80 hours is appropriate.

In order to curb the risk of recidivism caused by the suspect mainly because of her personality problem, the psychologist advised putting the suspect under probation supervision and making it compulsory for him to undergo outpatient treatment (VERS training and if necessary). and individual treatment process) at center for outpatient forensic psychiatry De Waag. By a report dated January 14, 2019, the Netherlands Probation Service agreed with this advice.

The Court of Appeal considers it to be in the interests of both the suspect and society that the suspect undergoes such treatment and that the probation service supervises this and its well-being . For that reason there is reason to impose part of the community service in conditional form and thereby to set the recommended special conditions. Unlike the counselor , but with the Advocate General, the Court of Appeal also considers it advisable that the accused be prevented from contacting the victims in order to prevent new incidents , but the Court finds that a location ban is not proportionate.

In addition, the Court also takes the following into account when imposing a penalty.

The former partner of the suspect and his new girlfriend have turned to the television program 'program'. As a result, in a broadcast of 23 June 2019, extensive attention was paid to what would have happened between the suspect and the victims. Here, the suspect put down as a "deranged, crazy ex", the friend, the defendant in an interview accusedof the accused acts, but also of a series of other (as yet unproven) behaviors, camera images were played of the charges here and the damage to the car of the said girlfriend and a report from the present file was shown. Then you can see how a program maker awaits and addresses the suspect in her work. In response, he confronts her in public with the reproved destruction and damage, but also with the other behaviors of which the said friend accuses the suspect. Despite the suspect knowing in a controlled manner gives no needhaving a conversation with the program maker and quietly continuing her way, the program maker, followed by his camera crew, continues to haunt her and confront her with the behaviors reported by the girlfriend that the program maker fully adopts. This only comes to an end when the suspect gets on the metro, the program maker calls on her in front of other travelers and closes the metro doors.

For many people in the private and work environment of the suspect it was clear that the woman who was presented as perpetrator in the program concerned the suspect, among other things because she was approached by the program maker by her first name and non-anonymized people from her Facebook page photos were shown. According to the suspect, her ex-partner informed Integrity Bureau of her employer the day before the assignment about the approaching assignment. This statement is plausible, because a letter from her supervisor shows that following a report by 'the other party' to the Integrity Office, an investigation into the suspect was started, which, incidentally, did not lead to taking (disciplinary) measures. Due to the tensionswho caused the television broadcast and its aftermath to the suspect, she dropped out of work and is - although reintegrating - not yet fully operational. The court does not detract from the seriousness of the proven destruction and damage and the impact that these have had on the victims. However, the subsequent actions of the ex-partner and his new girlfriend have led to something that strongly bears the character of naming and shaming, without proper rebuttal, with all consequences for the suspect. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal there is no room for that in a constitutional state, the less so now that the incidents that were central to the broadcast were still before the judge. All of this is seen as a reason to impose the community service sentence entirely in conditional form.

All things considered, the Court of Appeal considers a completely conditional punishment of the duration to be reported to be appropriate and appropriate.

Claim of the injured party injured 2
The injured party injured party 2 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for damages on 7 January 2019. This amounts to € 5,303.92 as compensation for material damage, plus the statutory interest. The claim has been assigned to the judgment whose appeal up to an amount of € 5,086.00 in material damage. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General requested at the hearing on appeal that the claim be granted for an amount of € 4,950.00, plus the statutory interest and subject to the imposition of the compensation measure.

The court considers as follows

The counselor has extensively substantiated the claim of the injured party on behalf of the suspect, in particular with regard to the occurrence of damage and the extent of it claimed. In view of that reasoned dispute, the rules of civil procedural law require further evidence for which there is no place in the criminal proceedings. Therefore, the handling of the claim results in a disproportionate burden on the criminal proceedings. The injured party cannot therefore be received in the claim and can only bring the claim to the civil court.

Claim of the injured party injured party 1
The injured party injured party 1 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 200.00, consisting of € 150.00 to compensate for material damage and € 50.00 to compensate for non-material damage. The claim is assigned to the judgment of which an appeal is made up to an amount of € 150.00 for compensation for material damage. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General requested at the hearing on appeal that the claim be granted for an amount of € 150.00, plus the statutory interest and subject to the imposition of the compensation measure.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has found that the injured party has directly suffered material damage as a result of the proven act of the accused under 1 up to an amount of € 150.00, in view of the reasoned arguments of the injured party who have not been substantiated on the part of the suspect. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage so that the claim up to that amount, plus the statutory interest, will be granted.

For the rest, it has proved insufficient that the alleged damage was directly caused by the proven actions of the suspect. The injured party can therefore not be received in the claim to that extent.

The Court of Appeal will impose the compensation measure in the manner described below to promote the compensation of the damage by the suspect.

Claim of the injured party injured party 3
The injured party injured party 3 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for damages on 7 January 2019. This amounts to € 543.13 to compensate for material damage, plus the statutory interest. The claim is attributed to the judgment whose appeal up to an amount of € 263.13 in material damage. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

At the hearing on appeal, the Advocate General requested that the claim be awarded in the amount of € 263.13, plus the statutory interest and subject to the imposition of the compensation measure.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found it sufficient that the injured party suffered material damage directly as a result of the proven actions of the accused under 2 up to an amount of € 264.13, in view of the reasoned arguments of the injured party who have not been substantiated on the part of the suspect. The suspect is obliged to compensate for such damage so that the claim up to that amount, plus the statutory interest, will be granted.

For the rest, it has proved insufficient that the alleged damage was directly caused by the proven actions of the suspect. The injured party can therefore not be received in the claim to that extent.

The Court of Appeal will impose the compensation measure in the manner described below to promote the compensation of the damage by the suspect.

Claim of the injured party injured party 4
The injured party injured party 4 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 1,963.52. This claim was declared inadmissible in the judgment against which an appeal was made. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

At the hearing, the Advocate General requested that the injured party again be declared inadmissible in the claim. The counselor has joined the decision of the police judge.

The court considers as follows.

It has not been found that the natural person named in the claim substantiation form is authorized / authorized to take legal action on behalf of the injured party 4. It would be a disproportionate burden of the criminal proceedings at this stage of the criminal proceedings to give the injured party the opportunity to do so. The injured party can therefore not be received in the claim and only submit it to the civil court.

Applicable legal requirements
The punishment to be imposed is based on Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 22c, 22d, 36f, 57 and 350 of the Criminal Code .

These legal regulations are applied as applicable at the time of the proven.

DECISION
The court:

Destroys the judgment that appeals and does justice again:

Declares, as considered above, proven that the suspect committed the charges under 1, 2 and 3.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares the proven punishable under 1, 2 and 3, qualifies as aforementioned and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to community service for the duration of 80 (eighty) hours , if not properly performed, to be replaced by 40 (forty) days in custody .

Decides that the community service will not be enforced, unless the court may order otherwise because the suspect was guilty of a criminal offense before the end of the probationary period of 2 (two) years or the suspect during the probationary period of 2 (two) ) has not cooperated for years to establish one or more fingerprints or has not provided proof of identity as referred to in Article 1 of the Compulsory Identification Act or has not cooperated with the probation supervision, intended in Article 14d, second paragraph, of the Criminal Code , the cooperation home visits included, or the special conditions listed below have not been complied with.

Sets as special conditions that the convicted person:

- reports to Probation Service Netherlands, as frequently and for as long as that institution considers it necessary, and adheres to the instructions to be given by the probation service in that regard ;

- presents itself for outpatient treatment of personality problems from outpatient center for outpatient forensic psychiatry De Waag, or a similar institution to be designated by the probation service, and adheres to the indications given to her by or on behalf of her treatment providers in that regard.

given, as long as the probation officer considers necessary in consultation with the care providers;

- does not contact or make direct or indirect contact with injured person 2 (born on date of birth 2 1970 in place of birth 2), injured person 3 (born on date of birth 3 1971 in place of birth 3) and injured person 1 (born on date of birth 4 1943 in place of birth 4).

Orders the probation service to supervise compliance with the aforementioned special conditions and to assist the convicted person on behalf of them .

Claim of the injured party injured 2

Declares the injured party injured party 2 inadmissible in the claim for damages and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Declares that the injured party and the suspect each bear their own costs.

Claim of the injured party injured party 1

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party to the injured party 1 in respect of the proven under 1 up to the amount of € 150.00 (one hundred and fifty euros) in respect of material damage , plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be referred to below on the day of satisfaction.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim named injured person 1, an amount of € 150.00 (one hundred and fifty euros) as compensation for material damage , in respect of the proven under 1 to replace the lack of payment and redress by 3 (three) days in custody , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date hereafter to the day of payment, on the understanding that the application of such custody shall be subject to the obligation to pay compensation to the State for damages. for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the material damage on 26 September 2018.

Claim of the injured party injured party 3

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party to the injured party 3 in respect of the evidence proven under 2 to the amount of € 263.13 (two hundred and sixty-three euros and thirteen cents) in respect of material damage , plus the statutory interest from the following state the starting date up to the date of payment.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim named injured person 3, an amount of € 263.13 (two hundred and sixty-three euros and thirteen cents) in respect of the evidence proven under 2 damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 5 (five) days in custody , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of such custody imposes the obligation to pay compensation to does not abolish the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the material damage on 27 July 2018.

Claim of the injured party injured party 4

Declares the injured party injured party 4 inadmissible in the claim for damages and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Declares that the injured party and the suspect each bear their own costs.

This judgment was delivered by the multiple criminal chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal, which included WMC Tilleman, JJI de Jong and MLM van der Voet, in the presence of C. Roseboom, clerk of the court, and pronounced at the public hearing of this court of

December 3, 2019.

================================================================ =======================

...

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 4296