Content indication
Conviction for attempted murder of ex-girlfriend by cutting a knife in the face, among other things. The Court of Appeal concludes that this fact can be attributed to the suspect to a lesser extent. Sentenced to 8 years' imprisonment with deduction and TBS with compulsory treatment . Partial allocation of the claim for damages from the injured party.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-11
Publication date
2019-10-15
Case number
21-001839-18
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNNE: 2018: 1044
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
PS-Updates.nl 2019-1252
Statement
Department of criminal law

Parquet number: 21-001839-18

Decision dated: October 11, 2019

Contradiction

Judgment of the Multiple Chamber of Criminal Matters of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal, Leeuwarden seat,

recalled the appeal, brought against the judgment of the Noord-Nederland District Court of 26 March 2018 with public prosecutor's office number 18-830259-17 in the criminal case against

suspect ,

born at place of birth on date of birth 1975,

currently residing in the PI Veenhuizen, location Esserheem, in Veenhuizen.

The appeal

The suspect appealed against the aforementioned judgment.

Investigation of the case

This judgment was delivered on the basis of the investigation at the court hearings of 26 November 2018, 27 September 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the investigation at the hearing at first instance.

The Court of Appeal has taken cognizance of the Advocate General's claim for confirmation of the court's decision, with the exception of the decision to impose a penalty and the decision on the claim of the injured party. The Advocate General has requested that the accused be sentenced to seven years' imprisonment, deducting the time spent by him in pre-trial detention, and imposing the TBS measure with nursing by the government. The Advocate General also demanded that the accused for a five-year contact banimposed on the complainant in the form of the measure restricting freedom. With regard to the claim for compensation from the injured party, the Advocate General has requested that this claim be granted in its entirety, plus statutory interest and with the imposition of the compensation measure. This claim was submitted to the court after reading.

The Court of Appeal has also taken cognizance of what has been put forward by the accused and his counsel, JP Plasman.

The judgment whose appeal

By judgment of March 26, 2018, against which the appeal is being appealed, the court sentenced the suspect in terms of attempted murder to ten years' imprisonment, deducting the time he spent in pre-trial detention. The court furthermore imposed a prohibition of contact with the accused on the defendant with in the form of the measure restricting freedom for five years. In addition, the court upheld the claim for damages from the injured party to an amount of € 37,809.07, plus statutory interest and with the imposition of the compensation measure.

The court of appeal will set aside the judgment of which the appeal is being made and will do it again.

The indictment

After changing the indictment at the trial in first instance, the accused is charged with the following:

primary
he on or about July 9, 2017, in the municipality municipality, in execution of the crime intended by the suspect to deliberately and intentionally robbed injured of life, with that intention and whether or not after calm deliberation and quiet consultation :

- who has hit / punched multiple times, at least once, in / on / against the face / face, or at least the body, and / or

- the injured person (subsequently) with a knife, at least a sharp and / or pointed object, several times, at least once, in the face / face and / or tongue and / or other parts of the head and / or the (right) arm has stabbed / cut,

while the execution of that proposed crime has not been completed;

alternatively
he on or around July 9, 2017, in the municipality of the municipality, intentionally and intentionally injured to injured person, namely (a) permanent scar (s) in the face / face and / or other parts of the head, a severed jaw muscle and / or a severed facial nerve, has been inflicted by that intent and with or without calm consultation and consultation

- striking and / or punching those injured multiple times, at least once, in / on / against the face / face, or at least the body, and / or

- the injured person (subsequently) with a knife, at least a sharp and / or pointed object, several times, at least once, in the face / face and / or tongue and / or other parts of the head and / or the (right) arm to cut / cut;

more in the alternative
he on or about July 9, 2017, in the municipality municipality, for the execution of the crime intended by the accused to cause serious physical injury to the injured person intentionally and with or without intention, with that intention and whether or not after calm deliberation and calm consultation:

- who has hit / punched multiple times, at least once, in / on / against the face / face, or at least the body, and / or

- the injured person (subsequently) with a knife, at least a sharp and / or pointed object, several times, at least once, in the face / face and / or tongue and / or other parts of the head and / or the (right) arm has stabbed / cut,

while the execution of that proposed crime has not been completed.

If language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, these have been corrected. The suspect was therefore not harmed in the defense.

Means of evidence

The Court of Appeal applies the following means of proof, which contain the facts and circumstances that give cause for the statement of evidence, as set out in detail below. The court of appeal has no reason to doubt the accuracy and reliability of the content of those means of proof. With regard to the reliability of the declaration of the complainant, reference is made to the evidence considerations later in this judgment.

In the means of evidence below under 1, 4 to 6 and 8 to 11, reference is always made to the appendices of the official report, numbered number 1, Utsyn investigation , closed and signed on 5 October 2017 by officer 1, inspector of police unit Northern Netherlands.

1. The official report of 5 October 2017, page 017 of the aforementioned file, drawn up in legal form, containing an account of reporter 1, insofar as:

Reason for investigation
On Sunday, July 9, 2017, around 9:02 p.m., the Operational Center (OC) will take place 1, at the ambulance emergency room, with a 112 report. At the address address 1 in place 2 someone would have been stabbed with a knife. The victim was allegedly stabbed in the face by her ex-husband.

2. The statement made by the accused at the hearing of the court of 12 March 2018 , insofar as:

That Sunday I rang the doorbell and the injured person opened the door. She didn't let me in. I hit her face. I could have hit her in the mouth. It is possible that her tooth has been damaged. injured person entered her home . I followed her. I grabbed the knife and hit her in the face with it. I cut her face on the right with that knife.

You tell me that spoken messages have been worked out and that they have been added to the file (p. 255-257). It is possible that I have recorded those messages.

3. The statement made by the accused at the court hearing of 26 November 2018 , insofar as:

You tell me the messages on p. 255/257 of the file. Those messages are mine. It is true that I said "I am going to eat your liver", "you are going to die I am going to jail" and "I am taking your eyes with a screwdriver".

4. The official report of the declaration made on 10 July 2017, page 51 et seq. Of the aforementioned file, containing the declaration of injured party :

Name: injured party

First names: first names

Address: address 1

Place: municipality

Q: It happened yesterday the run up there what can you tell about it?

A: He sent me a message yesterday (the court understands: July 9, 2017) at 2 p.m. Whether I could call him back. I do not respond to his messages. I'm not going into that at all. He called and called me again. Finally I thought I'd call back. I told him our son is now going through Humanitas. I had agreed with him that he would no longer bother me. He does not stick to agreements. Later I was called again and did not answer. Then the doorbell rang. So I went there too. Normally I send the suspect - who is actually called the suspect - away when he stands there, but he made a very exaggerated kind.

I have opened the porch door. He came upstairs when I saw that he was drunk, he was completely drunk. I wanted to close the door, but I couldn't. When he gave his son back I immediately got a slap in the face. We were still standing in the doorway. I was in my house and he was standing on the doormat. I had my son on my arm then. I think he hit me with his fist. It was a hard blow. I immediately felt that my tooth was loose. I felt a severe pain. I thought I should flee. I saw that look in his eyes again. The same look I had seen two and a half years ago when he also abused me . I couldn't leave the house because he was there. I am the home my homefled in. I said nothing. I screamed. I fled to the balcony. I still had the son on my arm. After he hit me I saw that he took a knife from his pocket. His waistband may have been out of his left pocket. It was a knife with cartels on one side. I think it was a kind of kitchen knife. I think a kind of knife with those sharp edges with a black handle and a gray cutting part. I also felt those cartels when he cut me. It was not a bread knife, a knife with sharp points on it. I estimate the knife as a whole at about 25 centimeters. I don't even have those knives.

He went around with an arm with a bow, otherwise he couldn't reach it, because my son was on that side of mine. He went around my son to cut me with his right arm. He stood behind me. First he went with his arm in front of me to the left side of my face. I felt he cut there. Because I had a son on that side, he could not cut well. Then I felt that he cut several times on the right side of my face. It was that I turned my head away, otherwise he would have cut my neck. I turned my head and my chin on the chestso that he could not cut my throat and he finally cut me in the cheek. I just heard the sound of cutting. I just heard he cut me several times. He just took the knife again I think. I was bleeding like a bull. I turned my head away in a way that he couldn't cut my neck from behind. I have tilted my head to my shoulder. I felt he wanted to cut my neck. I thought if that happens then it's done, then it's happened. I brought my head to my shoulder to my throat protection by laying my head on his shoulders, he could not reach me my throat. He has also threatened mewith things like this. When he left, he closed the outside door.

5. The official report of the examination of the witness, dated 13 July 2017, page 511 et seq. Of the aforementioned file, including as witness testimony :

Q: What did you do last Sunday, July 9, 2017?

A: I was at the pub around 1:30 PM.

Q: Do you mean by the pub, café name 1 gone?

A: Yes.

I arrived there on the scooter. suspect immediately asked me for my keys. I gave him the keys to my scooter and the suspect was back in ten minutes. suspect immediately gave me the keys back. We stayed outside. It was a very normal Sunday. I had absolutely no idea that something was going on. that night the suspect was the peace itself.

6. A written document, namely an injury report of 11 July 2017, prepared and signed by T. van Mesdag, FMG forensic doctor, page 104 et seq. Of the aforementioned file, to the extent that his / her statement is:

Declared: Victim indicates that she has been attacked in her house by the suspect. Upon entering the home, the suspect would first have given a punch to the mouth and then, with a knife, made cutting movements in the direction of the face and neck, both left and right.

Emergency room diagnosis: Cut in the right cheek running from the corner of the mouth to the earlobe. The jaw muscle on the right side is almost completely cut in two places, a branch of the facial nerve is cut and there are cuts on the tongue. There is arterial bleeding in the wound in two places. On the left jaw corner and on the right upper arm cuts into the subcutaneous fatty tissue. The root of the right front tooth is broken. Blood loss on the PD due to an ambulance estimated at 800 ml.

Presumption of permanent disability: Yes, possible functional disability when chewing due to damage to the jaw muscle on the right. Possible functional limitation of the muscles around the right mouth due to damage to motor nerve branch.

Estimated duration further healing visible injuries: 12 weeks.

The injury found can fit well with the circumstances indicated by the person under investigation.

7. A written document, namely an injury report of 9 November 2017, drawn up and signed by T. van Mesdag, forensic doctor, page 15 et seq. Of Supplementary Report No. 2 dated 7 November 2017, to the extent that, as his / her statement:

Could the injury, as described in the report of 11 July 2017, be fatal?

With the wound on the right side of the face there was an arterial bleeding in two places. The estimated blood loss on arrival of the ambulance was 800 ml. In the absence of medical assistance, this injury could have resulted in bleeding and ultimately death.

The cut on the right side of the face, the victim stated that she when she was attacked head to the right shoulder bowed to the carotid protect . The depth of this cut is completely through the cheek into the oral cavity, the side of the tongue would also have been hit. A cut with this depth at the carotid artery would most likely have caused a carotid artery, which is a fatal injury without acute medical intervention.

Hesitation marks were not found on any of the injuries. All observed cut injuries are down to the subcutaneous fat tissue or deeper.

8. The official report of findings of 1 August 2017, page 255 et seq. Of the aforementioned file, drawn up in legal form, including as report of reporter 2 :

The content of the injured party's mobile phone has been investigated. When processing all audio messages, it turned out to me that the suspect suspected multiple threats against the complainant through these audio messages . On May 22, 2017, suspect suspected the first threats . For the following audio messages, the suspect expressed specific threats .

PTT-20170522-WA000 5.37 pm :

I'm going DINEMOK crazy! I'm going to eat your liver!

You take a different path. I do not know. You miss today, but I pick another day for you.

PTT-20170523-WA002 5.46 am :

I'm not going to get scared of prison. I'm released. Then where I will look where you will do. I then maybe not doing anything. Then I sit down maybe a month or two months, then I'll be released. You want son alone? son stays alone. You're dying, I'm going to jail.

PTT-20170523-WA0003 05:47 pm :

See you. Those bullets through that head. Hey? You have to move that street. DINEMOK. You are not going to keep your work always there. I'm going to grab you DINEMOK.

PTT-20170523-WA007 5:47 pm :

DINEMOK You want to die! Is my son important! DINEMOK. I am free. You don't want to solve. Screwdriver. That bridge.

PTT-20170523-WA0008 05:47 pm :

All day long I waited for you that DINEMOK bridge. You don't solve for me DINEMOK. Really, I grab your eyes with a screwdriver. You do not know.

PTT-20170610-WA0004.35 hours :

Where you go son, this morning is gone. Yes! I don't know where he's going. I'm going with my son. That son I made! What you want DINEMOK. You want the coffin go? I'm going through the coffin. That son is for me !. I made it.

PTT-20170610-WA0005 8.35 pm :

I'm not staying with you. I'm going to fight. You have to stay alone, not with a son. He won't stay with you. I'm going to take care of everything. I know what I'm going to do.

PTT-20170610-WA0011 8.35 pm :

Hello DINEMOK. It didn't last that long. Where you go, go! Me, suspect, free! If you would like to report DINEMOK police. Go! I can do where you work. DINEMOK. I come out dr. Ikke passes 5 bullets through your head for you! Five DINEMOK! It starts to vibrate that ground. Isse cunt that Moroccan. I come to your eyes! Get out of your own country!

PTT-20170610-WA0012 8.35 pm :

You like to die! Isse going for me. I do it for you once. AF! DINEMOK! Where is my son! This morning is gone, now is not at home. I'm going to catch you injured. DINEMOK. My son dee, my son is not yours.

9. The official report of the track record drawn up on 17 July 2017, page 489 et seq. Of the aforementioned file, including as a report of the reporter the reporter 3 and the reporter 4 :

In the home of the suspect suspect at the address 2 in place 2, four knives were seized. Three of these knives corresponded to the description given by the victim of the knife used by the suspect.

10. The official report of findings of 3 August 2017, page 232 et seq. Of the aforementioned file, drawn up in legal form, including as report of reporter 2 :

The word 'Dinemok' (phonetic) is used in a large part of the audio messages. A Moroccan interpreter was contacted for the translation. He translated this word as follows:

“The word DINEKMOK literally means 'your mother's faith'. However, the word is used by someone when this person is furious and wants to aggressively reinforce his words. ”

11. The official report of findings, drawn up in legal form, of historical traffic data of 3 August 2017, page 130 et seq. Of the aforementioned file, including as a report of a reporter reporter 5:

The data obtained shows that the number requested uses the number 3 and number 4 during the requested period. The telephone number is a prepaid number. The number questioned concerns a telephone number that is used by the suspect, are the suspect in this investigation .

After July 9, 2017 8:49 PM there is no longer a link with an image number. This also means that no mast is displayed. It is very likely that the device was switched off at 8:49 pm somewhere after the conversation.

Consideration regarding the evidence

The accused is accused of deliberately and with or without deliberation trying to kill his ex-girlfriend, complainant, in the presence of their son by slapping her in her face and holding a knife in her face and arm. to cut.

The position of the defense

The defendant stated in the first instance and on appeal that he accidentally hit the injured party with the knife. He had no intention of injuring, let alone killing, of the complainant.

Counsel argued at the hearing of the court that the whole of facts and circumstances used by the court and the advocate general to substantiate the conclusion that there would be premeditated advice is insufficient to support this conclusion.

Considerations regarding the reliability of the evidence

With the court, the court considers the declaration of the complainant credible. In the judgment of 26 March 2018, the court considered among other things:

“The court considers the declaration of the complainant credible since it is supported by objective sources in the file. Nowhere does it appear that she made up or expanded her story. From the recorded messages heard by the policeit appears that the suspects' threats had already started some time before July 9, 2017 and that the suspect stood her alive. Also the injury described by the forensic doctormatches the circumstances as described by the applicant. Moreover, the accountant's account shows that when searching the home of the suspect similar knives were found as the knife described by the complainant.

The suspect - on the other hand - initially did not want to make a statement about the suspicion raised against him. He did indicate that he had not been at or at the home of the injured party and not having stung.Only at the trial and apparently after taking cognizance of the incriminating content of the file did the defendant indicate that he had caused (a part of) the injury with a knife, but that this could be due to an unfortunate coincidence of movements of himself and the complainant due. The court dismisses this - even after repeatedly questioning vague - statement as unbelievable. To begin with, the court is unable to see why the accused did not want to explain earlier about the alleged accident, while this course of events could be relieving to him. In addition, if it had happened as the defendant stated at the hearing, it would have been very obvious that the defendant would have the mother of his childwho was heavily bleeding to the rescue.

Moreover, the suspect's version of the course of events on the evening of 9 July 2017 offers no explanation for the injury detected by the forensic doctor: (deep) cuts and stab wounds in various places. ”

At the court hearing, the defendant made a statement that broadly corresponds to the statement made at the court hearing. In a number of parts, however, the defendant stated differently and variedly. The Court of Appeal has no reason to doubt the statement made by the complainant. The court does not believe the accused in his statement. The court takes over the above considerations from the court.

Intent on the death of the complainant

In view of the statement of the complainant, the court of appeal comes to the conclusion that the actions of the accused described by the defendant were aimed at cutting the neck of the complainant and thus her death. After all, it follows from the statement of the complainant that the suspect took a knife of 25 centimeters from his pocket or waistband, that he stood behind the defendant, went with his arm and with the knife first in front of the defendant to the left side of the defendant's face and cut there. The suspect could not cut well on the left-hand side of the complainant because the complainant had their son's son on her left arm. The defendant then cut several times on the right-hand side of the complainant's face. The complainant has slanted her head in the direction of her shoulder and her chin on her chestso that the suspect could not cut her throat. As a result, the accused complainant finally cut her cheek, according to the defendant. The defendant's actions, namely standing behind the complainant with a relatively large knife and then forcefully making her multiple cuts, which led to the serious injuries included in the declaration of injury, including those in her cheeks and jaw muscles, whereby the complainant her chin has laid on her chest to prevent such cuts in the neck from appearing, is so outwardly directed to kill the complainant that the suspect intended to kill the complainant. This is all the more true now that the forensic physician has stated in his injury statement for none of the injurieshaving found hesitation marks which, in the opinion of the court of appeal, provides support for targeted action by the suspect.

Premeditation

The assumption of premeditation requires that it is established that the suspect has had time to reflect on his decision or decision, so that he has had the opportunity to think about the meaning and consequences of his intended act and has taken account of this.

The question as to whether there is a question of premeditated counsel involves weighing and assessing the circumstances of the specific case by the judge, who must determine the weight of the instructions that argue for or against the proven explanation of premeditated counsel. Determining that the suspect had sufficient time to consider whether to take or take the decision constitutes an important objective indication that premeditated advice has been used, but does not have to deter the judge from giving more weight to contraindications know. An example thereof may be given to the fact that the decision-making and implementation in sudden fiercedrift, that there is only a short period of time between decision and implementation or that the opportunity for deliberation only arises during the implementation of the decision. For example, certain circumstances (or a combination thereof) may ultimately lead the court to conclude that the suspect has not acted in advance in the given case.

Partly in view of the aggravating effect that this component has, certain findings must be made on the determination that the opportunity required for the pre-determined council has existed and the court, in particular if the pre-prepared council does not follow directly from the evidence, to give further consideration to this in his statement of reasons for the statement of evidence.

The background to the requirement that the suspect has had the opportunity to reflect on the significance and consequences of his intended act and to be aware of it is that if it is established that the suspect has had that opportunity, it is reasonable to assume that the suspect has taken advantage of this opportunity and has therefore actually thought about the meaning and the consequences of his intended act and has taken account of it (cf. the consultation and reflection that has been placed in the legal history against the immediate uplift of mind). After all, it is difficult to criminalize the fact that the suspect has actually thought and given an accountevidence, certainly in the case that the statements of the suspect and / or any witnesses do not provide insight into what was dealt with before and at the time the offense was committed. Whether premeditated counsel can be proven in such a case depends strongly on the aforementioned occasion and on the other factual circumstances of the case such as the nature of the offense, the circumstances in which it was committed and the conduct of the suspect for and while committing the fact. It should be noted in this regard that the mere circumstance that it has not been established that action has been taken in an instantaneous upward mood is not sufficient to draw the conclusion from this that there is premeditated advice.

The Court of Appeal considers it proven that the suspect had deliberately attempted to intentionally rob the complainant of his life. The Court of Appeal took into account the run-up to and the conduct of the accused in the home of the complainant, as well as the conduct of the accused after it. The criminal file shows that the complainant had already reported to the police before 9 July 2017 about threatening and aggressive behavior by the suspect. On 3 May 2017, the complainant reported that she had been threatened by the suspect and on 17 May 2017 she reported that she had been caught by her throat. From May 22, 2017, the suspect via WhatsApp has threateningaudio messages sent to the declarant. In several messages, suspect has made statements that indicate the intention to kill the complainant. On 9 July 2017, the Defendant tried several times to get in touch with the complainant by telephone. Eventually the complainant answered and informed the suspect that the contact was about dealingwith their son son through Humanitas. After this telephone conversation, the defendant switched off his telephone at 8:49 PM. At 8:57 pm he left the cafe where he was staying. The defendant rang the doorbell at the common front door of the complainant's apartment and told the complainant that he had a present for his son and wanted to give it to him. In spite of her habit of sending the suspect away, the complainant admitted the suspect into the porch. When the suspect then walked upstairs, the complainant saw that the suspect was drunk. While she was still standing in the doorway of her own apartment, the accused's defendant got a slap in the face. The suspect then took the knife from his trouser pocket or waistband and he repeatedly cut the complainant after he when she fled her apartment, was followed. At 9:02 p.m. the 112 report about the cutting incident arrived. When leaving theThe complainant's home closed the front door of the suspect and went back to the café. The suspect has removed the knife. The suspect returned to the café at 9:06 PM and the criminal file did not show that his state of mind was then different from usual. After spending some time in the cafe, the suspect left for France.

In particular, on the basis of the above facts, the Court of Appeal found - in summary - that the accused thus provided himself with a knife under the pretext of a gift for a son and - according to the statement of the accused himself on appeal - also for the complainant, ringed at the house . However, there has been no question of transfer of gifts. Upon arrival, the suspect almost immediately hit the complainant in the face, after which he moved further into the househas followed in the fleeing declarant. He took out the knife he had brought with him, and the complainant - when he caught her - cut it several times with that knife. In the period prior to this evening, the accused indicated that she would kill her. After the attack on the complainant accused has the property leaving the complainant came to return to the place where he from, the cafe. The complainant was thus seriously injured in the home closed by the defendant with an arterial bleeding .

The Court of Appeal leads from all the foregoing and furthermore from the very short timeline of events and actions that emerged after the accused arrived at the homerang the doorbell that the suspect had acted systematically and purposefully with regard to trying to kill the complainant. It has not been stated or become plausible that the suspect acted in an instantaneous uplift. The suspect entered the complainant's apartment under a false pretext, he had taken a knife with him, he attacked the complainant without hesitation - there was no question of a discussion or quarrel - and seriously injured her in her apartment after cutting her face abandoned. Suspect closed the door and went back to the cafe where, according to a witness, he quietly arrived. From this planned action, the Court of Appeal deduces that the accused not only had the opportunity and time to think about the meaning and the consequences of his intended act and that he had actually taken account of this. He came and acted according to plan. In the meantime or in the period before, there was no question of any external incentive or reason. Nor is there an objectively identifiable circumstance that has prevented or made it difficult for the accused to deliberate. In addition, the Court of Appeal assigns significance to the conduct of the accused after the end of the violence exerted on the accused. This behavior does not constitute a contra-indication for the purposeful actions adopted by the Court of Appeal by the accused and his intentional plan for that purpose,

Conclusion

On the basis of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal considered it legally and convincingly proven that the accused was guilty of attempting to murder the complainant on 9 July 2017.

Proof of declaration

By legal means of proof, which include the reasoning facts and circumstances on which the statement of evidence is based, the court considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the accused committed the primary indictment, on the understanding that:

he on July 9, 2017, in the municipality municipality, for the execution of the crime intended by the suspect to deliberately and intentionally robbed injured of life, with that purpose and after calm deliberation and calm consultation:

- who has hit the injured person in the face, and

- the injured person subsequently cut several times in the face and tongue and other parts of the head and the (right) arm with a knife,

while the execution of that proposed crime has not been completed.

The Court of Appeal does not consider that what the accused was charged more or differently than was stated above, so that this should be acquitted.

Punishability of the proven

The primary proven results provide:

attempted homicide.

Punishability of the suspect

In the context of this criminal case, a Pro Justitia report was issued by the Netherlands Institute for Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology (NIFP), on location Pieter Baan Centrum (PBC) of 30 August 2019, prepared by Th.JG. Bakkum, psychiatrist , and PE Geurkink, GZ psychologist. From 27 March 2019 to 15 May 2019, the accused was included in the PBC for seven weeks. The suspect has cooperated . The report means, among other things, that the suspect is suffering from a morbid disorder in the sense of alcohol dependence and poor developmentof mental capacities in the sense of a slight intellectual disability and an unspecified personality disorder with mainly antisocial traits. These disorders occurred during the proven fact. Bakkum and Geurkink indicate that the poor development has influenced suspicious behavior during the proven fact, but that this is not certain with regard to the morbid disorder. The inadequate development of the mental faculties found by the accused was durable, difficult to influence, was present at the time of the proven fact and helped shape it. According to Bakkum and Geurkink, this leads to the advice of the accused to attribute the proven fact to a reduced degree.

The court can agree with the aforementioned findings of the behavioral experts on the mental capacities of the suspect.

In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal finds that the suspect is experiencing a defective development of mental capacities, that he was also present at the time of the proven fact and that he had the behavioral choices and behaviors of the suspect at the time of the proven fact affected. On the basis of the foregoing, the court of appeal comes to the conclusion that the proven fact can be attributed to the suspect to a lesser extent.

The court also considers the defendant to be a criminal offense. Grounds for exclusion are not considered to be present.

Imposition of punishment and measure

The punishment to be reported below is in accordance with the nature and the seriousness of the proven evidence and the circumstances in which this was committed, also in view of the person of the accused, as was shown during the investigation at the hearing.

The Court of Appeal specifically took the following into account.

Imposition of punishment

The suspect was guilty of an attempted murder of his ex-girlfriend in the direct presence of their son son who was then 2.5 years old. The suspect entered the porch at the complainant 's house under false pretenses and - while the complainant was still standing in the doorway with a son on her arm - gave a punch in the face of the complainant, as a result of which her tooth became loose. The complainant fled into the house with a son on his arm . The suspect then cut several times in the face of the complainant with a knife he had taken with him. The suspect has left the complainant with an arterial bleeding in the home .

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that this is a very serious fact.

By pressing her head on her shoulders when the accused cut her, the alert behavior of her neighbors and the emergency services did not die from her injuries. The accused intentionally seriously endangered the life and health of the complainant . The Court of Appeal charges the suspect with having committed the proven fact in the presence of a son. Now that the son has been on the arm of the complainant during the proven fact, he has been a very close witness of the ruthless and terrifying attempt at his mother's murder by his father .

The court of appeal also took into account the fact that this took place in the privacy of the home of the complainant and son, a place where they should be able to feel protected .

The seriousness and impact of this fact are also impressively illustrated by the complainant in her victim statements on appeal. The complainant feared - very understandably - for her own life and the life of her son. She describes that the fact has destroyed her physically and psychologically . Since August 2019, the complainant has been clinically admitted with severe depressive and suicidal symptoms as a result of a post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) caused by the suspect. The complainant is currently no longer able to take care of her son due to what has happened to her and was forced to hand it over to her parents. Physically the complainant also experiences the consequences of the fact every day through pain and unsightly scars in her face. Because of those scars, the complainant is reminded of the fact every day.

The Court of Appeal also took into account the extract from the Judicial Documentation of 26 August 2019 concerning the suspect, which shows that the suspect was previously irrevocably convicted of domestic violence . The complainant was also a victim. The suspect was still in probation from that sentence. The court of appeal charges the suspect that he is apparently hard readers and does not care about the personal space and sense of security of others, especially his ex-girlfriend.

The court of appeal - together with the court - is of the opinion that the proven criminal offense justifies the imposition of an unconditional prison sentence of ten years.

However, the Court of Appeal also takes into account the fact that the proven fact, as considered above under 'Punishment of the accused', can be attributed to the accused to a lesser extent.

In view of the above, viewed in relation to each other and in connection with each other, the Court considers that imposing an eight-year prison sentence, with deduction of the time spent by the suspect in pre-trial detention, appropriate and commanded.

Imposition of the TBS measure

It is presupposed that four conditions must be met if a suspect based on Articles 37 (2) and (3a) and 37a of the Criminal Code can be imposed on a suspect.

In the first place, at the time of committing the offense, the suspect must have a defective development or a morbid disorder of his mental capacities. The relevant fact must, in the second place, concern a crime for which, according to the legal description, a prison sentence of four years or more has been imposed, or belong to one of the crimes as specifically provided for in the law (Article 37a, first paragraph, preamble and under 1). , Sr). Thirdly, the safety of others or the general safety of persons or goods must demand the imposition of the measure. Finally, such a measure can only be imposed after the criminal courthas submitted a reasoned, dated and signed opinion from at least two behavioral experts from different disciplines, including a psychiatrist , who have investigated the suspect.

As has already been noted above, is included in the suspicious existence of a pathological disorder in the sense of dependency on alcohol and of a lack of development of mental faculties in the sense of a moderate intellectual disability, and an unspecified personality disorder with especially draw antisocial. These disorders occurred during the proven fact. The PBC rapporteurs Bakkum and Geurkink indicate that the poor development has influenced suspects behavior during the proven fact, but that of the morbid disorder this is not certain.

Furthermore, in this case there is talk of a crime as referred to in Article 37a, first paragraph, preamble and under 1, Sr.

In addition, there is such a risk of recidivism, in the sense that the safety of others, or the general safety of persons or goods, requires the imposition of the TBS measure with nursing by the government. From the aforementioned report of the PBC it follows that the defective development of the mental capacities found by the accused is durable, difficult to influence, and was present at the time of the proven fact and that it helped shape it. Failure of the suspect and suspects' awareness of illness increases the chance of a repeat offense. Furthermore, important risk factors are alcohol consumption, the (criminogenic) social network of the suspect, the lack of day care and the access arrangements.with his children , who in the future will lead to tensions again. The structured clinical assessment of the risk of recurrence involves a high risk of recurrence. Suspect accepts his handicap not want his freedom he can not handle, too much alcohol and possibly drugs coming into the problems of finance, do not know the interaction with his children to shape and is frustrated again from this confluence and angryand react, possibly inhibited by intoxication. A clinical, inpatient process is necessary and given the intensity of the requested treatment and the impossibility of conditions, this is only possible within the legal framework of a TBS with an order for nursing, according to the PBC rapporteurs Bakkum and Geurkink.

The court of appeal considers it irresponsible from a security point of view that the suspect returns to society after a prison sentence and without the risk of recidivism being removed. It follows from the file that the defendant has been violent in several relationships. The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that the reduction of the aforementioned high risk of recidivism and the protection of the society that is needed cannot take place other than by imposing TBS with an order for nursing.

The Court of Appeal considers that the TBS measure is imposed in respect of a crime that is directed against or causes danger to the inviolability of the body of one or more persons, namely the co-perpetration of qualified manslaughter. In view of Article 38e of the Penal Code, the total duration of TBS with compulsory nursing can therefore exceed a period of four years.

Imposition of the measure restricting freedom

From the victim's written declaration of victim as it was read out at the appeal hearing, it follows that the suspect is trying to bring about contact with their son through a lawyer . It also follows from the criminal file that the suspect, after the proven fact, namely on 23 July 2017, called the complainant from the PI in Zutphen in a threatening tone. From the expert report it follows that the risk of recidivism is also related to the way his child is treated .

The court of appeal will therefore also impose a prohibition of contact with the complainant as a measure within the meaning of Article 38v of the Criminal Code (hereafter: Sr). The Court of Appeal thus intends to prevent the suspect from contacting the complainant again. The court will impose this measure for a period of five years. A one-month replacement custody will be imposed for every time the suspect violates this prohibition. In addition, the Court of Appeal will order that the measure be immediately enforceable, now that on the basis of the foregoing it must be seriously taken into account that the suspect - even from detention -

will be incriminating towards the principal.

Claim of the injured party

The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 40,151.07. The claim is assigned to the amount of which an appeal has been made up to an amount of € 37,809.07. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of its original claim.

From the investigationat the hearing the court found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the primarily proven behavior of the accused up to an amount of € 39,316.07, consisting of € 14,316.07 in material damage and € 25,000.00 in non-material damage . The defense has not contested the substantive damage and has asked the Court of Appeal to consider whether there is cause for moderation with regard to the non-material damage. The Court of Appeal took into account the substantiated propositions of the injured party, not substantively disputed by the defense on this part. The budget for the extent of non-material damage is reserved for the court. The Court of Appeal will estimate the extent of the non-material damage on the basis of the provisions of Article 6: 106 of the Dutch Civil Code according to standards of fairness. Particular attention was paid to the way in which the accused tried to end the life of the injured party. He has been very violent and the defendant has been uncompromising in his actions. It is established that the unlawful conduct of the accused has intervened very deeply in the life afterwards of the injured party. The injured party is the result of the defendant's actionsseriously injured. The injured party has sustained physical injury in the form of facial scars, limitations in bodily functions in her mouth and there is mental injury. Expert help for her psychological complaints has proved necessary since the attempted murder. Since August 2019, the complainant has even been clinically admitted with serious depressive and suicidal complaints and PTSD complaints as a result of the violent acts by the suspect.

The amount of the intangible compensation should be determined as being considered over and above fairness, taking into account all the circumstances of the case, in particular the nature and severity of the harm to the person and the consequences thereof for the injured party. The Court of Appeal also took into account judgments made by other judges. The court considers everything considering an amount of € 25,000.00 to be fair. The accused is obliged to compensate that damage so that the claim will be awarded up to that amount.

To promote that the damage is compensated by the accused, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner mentioned below.

The Court of Appeal considers it illusory to believe that the suspect, on whom a long-term prison sentence will be imposed, will be able to meet his obligations within a reasonable period of time. This would give the substitute custody normally to be imposed, which is after all intended as a means of pressure for those who are not willing to pay, to be punitive in nature, which the Court of Appeal considered undesirable. It is therefore stipulated that, in the absence of payment of the amount to be paid to the State, only one day's replacement custody will be applied.

Name change costs

The injured party has furthermore claimed compensation for the costs incurred for the purpose of changing the son's last name. The Court of Appeal considers it perfectly understandable that the injured party is claiming the costs of proceedings for the name change of the son of the suspect now that the proceedings are related to the wrongful conduct of the suspect.

However, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that these costs cannot be regarded as damage that results directly from the proven fact. The injured party will therefore not be able to be received in this part of the claim.

Applicable legal requirements

The Court of Appeal has considered Articles 36f, 37a, 37b, 38e, 38v, 38w, 45 and 289 of the Criminal Code .

These regulations have been applied as they were valid at the time of the proven.

DECISION
The court:

Destroys the judgment that appeals and does justice again:

Declares, as considered above, proven that the suspect primarily committed the accused.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares the primarily proven punishable, qualifies as aforementioned and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for 8 (eight) years .

Recommends that the time taken by the accused before the implementation of that decision only in Article 27, paragraph, or Article 27a of the Code of Criminal will be referred to as pre-trial detention was spent in the execution of the sentence of imprisonment reduced , in so far as that time has not already been deducted from another penalty.

Orders the suspect to be made available and orders him to be nursed by the government.

Imposes on the measure aimed at limiting the freedom that the convicted person does not in any way - directly or indirectly - for a period of 5 (five) years

will contact, search or have injured parties.

Recommends that replacement custody will be applied in case the measure is not met. The duration of this replacement detention is one month for every time the measure is not complied with, with a maximum of six months.

Application of the replacement does not cancel the obligations under the imposed measure.

Recommends that the imposed measure be immediately enforceable.

Claim of the injured party

Allows the claim for damages from the injured party with regard to the primarily proven up to the amount of € 39,316.07 (thirty-nine thousand three hundred and sixteen euros and seven cents) consisting of € 14,316.07 (fourteen thousand three hundred and sixteen euros and seven cents) material damage and € 25,000.00 (twenty-five thousand euros) for non-material damage , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim named injured, an amount of € 39,316.07 (thirty-nine thousand three hundred and sixteen euros and seven cents) consisting of € 14,316, 07 (fourteen thousand three hundred and sixteen euros and seven cents) material damage and € 25,000.00 (twenty five thousand euros) immaterial damage , in the absence of payment and redress replaced by 1 (one) day detention , plus the statutory interest from the starting date mentioned below up to the day of payment, on the understanding that the application of that detention does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the material and non-material damage on 9 July 2017.

Thus adopted and delivered on 27 September 2019 by

LJ Hofstra, chairman,

J. Dolfing and TH Bosma, counselors,

in the presence of Mr. KM Diender, Registrar,

and pronounced in open court on 11 October 2019.

mr. TH Bosma and mr. KM Diender are outside to co-sign this judgment.

1 Official report of findings, p. 255 ff
2 Medical certificate, p. 104 et seq
3 Official report, p. 17 ev
4 Official report of OVC PI Zutphen findings, p. 316 et seq
5 Official report of the suspect, p. 616 et seq
Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 8428