Content indication
Access arrangement between grandparents and grandchild. Admissibility. Access arrangements in the interest of grandchild?
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-03-12
Publication date
2019-03-18
Case number
200.241.027 / 01
Procedure
Appeals for interim relief
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 9511
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
EB 2019/63
Statement
judgment

___________________________________________________________________ _ _

GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM

Department of Civil and Tax Law Team III (Family and Juvenile Law)

Case number: 200.241.027 / 01 KG

Court case number: C / 15/272122 / KG ZA 18-237

judgment of the multiple family room of 12 March 2019 (in the case of early retirement)

on

the father ,

living at location A,

APPELLANT,

lawyer: mr. ME Groot in Heerhugowaard,

against:

the grandfather and

the grandmother ,

both living in place B, United Kingdom,

INITIATED,

lawyer: EB Warmerdam-Wolfs in Alkmaar.


1 The appeal proceedings
Parties are hereinafter referred to as the father , grandfather and grandmother, respectively. The grandfather and grandmother are collectively also called grandparents .

On 7 June 2018, the father appealed against a judgment of the preliminary relief judge in the Noord-Holland court (Alkmaar location) of 15 May 2018, given in summary proceedings between the grandparents as claimants in the convention, and also defendants in the counterclaim , and the father as defendant in the convention also claimant in the counterclaim.

The parties then submitted the following documents:

- statement of grievances;

- statement of defense, also statement of grievances in incidental appeal;

- a response statement in an occasional appeal, with productions.

The father has concluded that the court will set aside the contested judgment and, enforceable in stock, will primarily declare the grandparents inadmissible in their claims, or at least reject their claims, condemning the grandparents in the costs of proceedings in both instances and, in the alternative, case will refer to the Council for Child Protection , in order to examine the custody and belregeling between (his son) the minor and the grandparents can be considered to be important.

The grandparents have concluded that the father's appeal should be declared inadmissible , or at least that it should be rejected.

In an incidental appeal, the grandparents concluded that the court of appeal will set aside the contested judgment insofar as the penalty payment claimed has been rejected and, in the case of stock, will still grant the penalty payment claimed . The father concluded that the grandparents should be declared inadmissible in their appeal, or at least rejected.

At the hearing of 14 February 2019, the parties had their lawyers argue, Groot mentioned above, on the basis of pleading notes that have been submitted.

Finally, judgment was requested.


2 Facts

2.1
In the judgment under 2.1 up to and including 2.6, the preliminary relief judge summarized the facts that it took as the starting point for the assessment of the case. These facts are not in dispute and therefore serve the court as a starting point. In summary, the facts amount to the following.


2.2
The father was married to the grandparents' daughter , the mother . They had a son together, the minor (hereinafter minor ), born in 2008. The mother of the minor is deceased on January 12, 2009.


2.3
The grandparents live in place B, United Kingdom. There has been contact between the minor and the grandparents from birth. Over time, an access arrangement has been established whereby the grandparents come to the Netherlands four times a year to visit the minor . the minor and grandparents then stayed together for a few days. The minor and the father also visited B instead. In addition, the grandparents regularly called the minor .


2.4
The grandparents last saw the minor in June 2017. In August 2017 they stood in front of a closed door when they wanted to visit the minor . On 11 August 2017, the grandparents received a letter from the father informing him that he no longer allowed contact between the grandparents and the minor .


2.5
In September 2017, telephone contact between the grandparents and the minor ended.


2.6
The father has a new wife. They had a son together. The current wife of the father , by order of the court Noord-Holland (location Alkmaar) on July 18, 2018 along with the father , the authority received the minor .


3 Assessment in principal and incidental appeal

3.1.
The judge in preliminary relief proceedings has - in summary and insofar as relevant here - determined an access arrangement between the grandparents and the minor whereby they interact with each other in the Netherlands four times a year from Saturday 12 noon to 5 pm Sunday . In addition, the judge in interlocutory proceedings has determined that the grandparents and the minor may have telephone contact with each other once every two weeks, whereby the father ensures that the minor is given the opportunity to contact his grandparents without tax.to have. The father raises four complaints against this decision and the grounds on which it was based. The grandparents object to the rejection of the claimed penalty as an incidental appeal .


3.2
In the first complaint, the father challenges the representation by the court in preliminary relief proceedings of the grandparents' position on the extent of their contact with the minor . Grief 2 refers to the consideration of the preliminary relief judge that there is a close personal relationship. These complaints lend themselves to joint treatment.


3.3
The father argues that the grandmother was in the Netherlands from late October 2008 to mid-January 2009 to assist her daughter. In that period the father cared for the minor . After the minor 's mother 's death , the grandparents came to the Netherlands on average four times a year to visit the minor . These visits usually lasted two days. Given these limited visits, it cannot be assumed that grandparents played a major role in the care and upbringing of the minor . Furthermore, the telephone contact did not take place every week and the conversations were short-lived. The father believes that given the existing contacts there is no close personal relationship.

The grandparents believe that the judge in interlocutory proceedings has correctly stated their position on the degree of interaction . There was an average of four weekend visits a year, as well as structural call contacts. Because the grandparents live abroad, there is a more than usual way of dealing with the grandparents . In addition, grandparents are the only link between the minor and his deceased mother . The grandparents believe that there is a close personal relationship, so that they are admissible in their claim.


3.4
The court considers as follows. There is no dispute between the parties that after the death of their daughter the grandparents came to the Netherlands on average four times a year to see their grandson. These contacts lasted two days on average and the minor stayed - at least until a few years ago - with his grandparents during their stay in the Netherlands. The minor and the father also visited the grandparents in place B several times . Furthermore, there was regular telephone contact.

Taking into account that the grandparents live in place B, the court and the judge in interlocutory proceedings are of the opinion that the contacts were broader than the usual and daily contacts between grandparents living abroad and their grandchild. The fact that the telephone conversations lasted only a short time is not incomprehensible given the age of the minor . The Court also considers it important that grandparents are the only link between the minor and his mother , since there is also no contact between the minor and his uncle, the brother of his mother. In view of these circumstances, the Court of Appeal is currently of the opinion that the grandparents have made it sufficiently plausible that there is a close personal relationship between them and the minor . To the extent that the father wanted to argue with his first two complaints that the preliminary relief judge wrongly considered the grandparents admissible in their claims, the court of appeal therefore ignores that.

The grievances 1 and 2 fail.


3.5
The father represents the third complaint that the judge wrongly considered that there is an urgent interest. The court does not follow the father in this either. It may be that the grandparents had not seen the minor for 10 months and had not spoken for 7 months when the summary injunction was issued , but that does not mean that the matter is not urgent. The grandparents have stated, without being contradicted, that before they issued the summary injunction, they first tried amicably with the father to find a solution and to resume contact.to come. When that did not work, they started the present proceedings. The time between stopping the access arrangements and bringing the proceedings at first instance is not so long that the grandparents no longer have an urgent interest in their claim. Also complaint 3 fails.


3.6
Grief 4 is directed against the established access and call regulations. According to the father , interaction is contrary to the minor interests of the minor . To this end, he considers it important that the grandparents try to place the father and his wife in a bad light compared to third parties. He disputes that it was not the intention of the grandparents to disqualify him and his wife as educators , as the court in preliminary relief considered, because in that case they would have apologized for their actions, which did not happen. Also the father hasdifficulty with the way the visits went. the minor came home with weird stories and was unmanageable for a few days. Despite requests not to do this, the grandparents continued to give the minor expensive gifts. Due to the disturbed relationship between parties, according to the father, no interaction can take place. the minor has also indicated that he does not want to spend an entire weekend with his grandparents four times a year . But he would love to occasionally something with them business .

The call scheme is complied with, but the conversations are difficult.

the minor is in special education and has ADHD. He suffers from attention and concentration problems and there is impulsiveness. The father argues that the chances that the problems in the minors will increase when the minor is required four times a year, handling and call once per fortnight grandparents have.

For the identity development of the minor it is not necessary that there is contact with the grandparents . The wife of the man was a friend of the mother of the minor , and she teaches him Spanish and Peruvian will use him. There are also photos of the mother in the home and she is being talked about.

The man has suggested trying mediation. He was willing cooperating in guided interaction , provided the grandparents would pay the costs. The grandparents , however, proved unwilling to do this.


3.7
The grandparents believe that there are emotional occasion arguments. The grandparents realize that the father is the caretaker and educator of the minor and that they must conform to their wishes. Both parties feel hurt, but the grandparents are well aware of their position. The grandparents believe that the disturbed relationship no reason may be to no dealings allow. They dispute that the minor would be of great resistance or that as a result of ADHD are not four weekends a year dealcould handle. That has not been the case in recent years either. They are angry that the father believes that his wife can take over the role of the minor 's mother in the context of identity development and descent. At the hearing on appeal, they stated that they could imagine that the minor would not always feel like coming on the phone. They can also agree with an arrangement whereby they have telephone contact once a month and also on special days.


3.8
The court considers as follows. Clearly the relationship between the father and the grandparents grave is disturbed . The Court of Appeal cannot escape the impression that both parties are engaged in a struggle for power in which they lose sight of the minor 's interests.

In the opinion of the court, the arguments that the father puts forward in support of his claim that an access arrangement conflicts with the overriding interests of the minor mainly relate to the father 's objections to the relationship . It is not clear whether the interaction actually goes against the interests of the minor . The Court of Appeal cannot exclude that it is the father who has caused disgust with the minor regarding the telephone and physical contact with his grandparents, because he himself thinks negatively about this contact. On the other hand, there is a large area of tension between the parties and both parties are not yet prepared to break this tension . The Court of Appeal does not exclude that a forced access arrangement between the grandparents and the minor may , given the relationship between the parties, lead to considerable unrest and tension , which the Court does not consider to be beneficial to the mental health and development of the minor. . Before a regulation can be adopted, an answer must first be given to the question whether it is currently in the best interests of the minor that contact be restored and, if so, how that recovery should take place. There is no place for such an investigation in the context of these summary proceedings.

The foregoing means that the judgment whose appeal cannot be upheld with regard to the provisional access arrangement. The court will set aside the judgment on this point. Having regard to the remark of the father that the minor occasionally something would like to take the grandparents will take the court assumes that when the minor end a wish that the father will listen to them and will make this possible.

The Court of Appeal considers it to be in the interests of the minor that telephone contact continues to exist, to prevent the bond between the minor and the family of his mother being completely broken. In view of the position of the grandparents at the hearing on appeal, the court will determine that there will be telephone contact once a month, whereby the grandparents may call the minor on the last Sunday of the month at 5 p.m. (Dutch time) and also on their own birthday and that of the minor . Like the preliminary relief judge, the court also expects the father to ensure that theminor is given the opportunity to have no- contact contact with his grandparents . This means more than just informing the minor that the father finds it no problem if the minor wants to call his grandparents . The father could make the minor enthusiastic about the telephone conversations with his grandparents by, for example, discussing with him that he can tell his grandparents what he experienced at school, with his brother etc.


3.9
The grandparents , in an incidental appeal, have demanded that a penalty payment is still attached to the access arrangement determined by the preliminary relief judge . In view of the above, this claim will be rejected.


3.10
The judgment whose appeal will be set aside. In the circumstances of the case, the Court of Appeal sees reason to compensate for the costs of the proceedings.


4 Decision
The court:

in summary proceedings in principal and incidental appeal:

set aside the judgment, the appeal of which, insofar as it provides for access arrangements and a biweekly call contact between the grandparents and the minor ,

and, insofar as it is again justified:

stipulates that a call contact arrangement applies between the minor and the grandparents whereby the grandparents have telephone contact with the minor at 5 p.m. (Dutch time) once a month on the last Sunday of the month, as well as on their own birthday and that of the minor , wherein the father ensures that the minor is given the opportunity to have unimpaired contact with the grandparents ;

ratifies the judgment of which the remainder is appealed;

declares these convictions enforceable from stock;

compensates the costs of the proceedings on appeal in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or else advanced.

This judgment was given by mrs. HA van den Berg, AR Sturhoofd and MC Schenkeveld and publicly pronounced by the role councilor on 12 March 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 858