Content indication
Joint authority and interaction . The Court of Appeal takes the view that the request for joint custody and association is rejected on the basis of objectifiable and uncontested facts now that the father disputes what has been included in the council report about his behavior.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-01-10
Publication date
2019-01-16
Case number
200.242.840 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.242.840 / 01

(Case number Court C / 17/152322 / FA RK 16-1778)

decision of January 10, 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: JA Neslo in Almere, the Netherlands,

and

defendant,

living at a secret address,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: A. Mulder in Groningen.


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the orders of the Noord-Nederland court, location Leeuwarden, of 21 June 2017 and 18 April 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 18 July 2018;

- the statement of defense (the conditional incidental appeal was withdrawn at the hearing);

- a journal report from mr. Neslo of 2 August 2018 with production (s);

- a letter from the Council for Child Protection (hereinafter the Board ) on October 12, 2018 with production (s);

- a fax from Mr. Neslo of November 23, 2018.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 4 December 2018. The parties appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. On behalf of the council , B appeared in the context of his advisory role.


3 The facts

3.1
Parties are the parents of:

- the minor (hereafter the minor ), born in 2013 in C. The father has recognized the minor . The mother exercises parental authority over the minor alone.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The parties are in dispute as to the authority over the minor , (the denial of) the father 's right of association with the minor and the obligation to provide information .


4.2
The contested decision of 18 April 2018 stipulates, insofar as relevant here, that the mother informs the father in writing in January, April, July and October of each year of important developments concerning the minor and thereby will always send a recent photo of the minor on the condition that during the first four times in the first week of the month in which the information will be sent, the father will send a photo, a card or a drawing to the minor .

The requests of the father to jointly charge him and the mother with custody of the minor and to establish a care / access arrangement between him and the minor are taken by the court following the advice of the council with the same decision, turned down.


4.3
The father with three complaints lodged an appeal of the decision of 18 April 2018. The father asks the order aside and a new judgment joint custody declaration, a (regular) visitation order, and the condition of the information requirements which implies that the father must show interest in the minor before he receives information, and that the obligation to provide information from the mother to the father takes place at a higher frequency.


4.4
The mother puts forward a defense and asks that the contested decision be ratified.


4.5
The council defends itself at the hearing and requests that the contested decision be ratified.


5 The reasons for the decision
Joint authority


5.1
Article 1: 253c paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) the until it authority competent parent of the child who never has the authority jointly with the parent from whom the child is exercised born, the court ask the parents to the joint authority or only to burden him with the authority over the child . The second paragraph of this article stipulates that if the request is intended to entrust the parents with joint custody and the other parent with joint custody does not agree, the request is only rejected if

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child might become trapped or lost between the parents and that it is not expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, or b. rejection is otherwise necessary in the best interest of the child .


5.2
The parental authority includes the duty and the right of a parent to his minor child to care for and educate. The parental authority holds some powers that are necessary for the education and care, which include the power to make key decisions in life child (such as the whereabouts taking, school, medical business, faith, leisure activities) . In the case of joint custody , such decisions are taken together with the other authoritative parent .

For joint custody it is therefore generally required that the parents are in fact able to exercise proper joint custody and that they can take decisions of any interest about their children in joint consultation.


5.3
The father has argued that there are no objections to burdening him with the authority with the mother . The fact that the parents cannot work together now and the mother has no faith in him can change by using counseling such as parenting mediation. The father thinks that the mother will succeed in talking to him. The father has objections (and has also submitted a complaint) to the report of the council and the manner in which it was drawn up. He believes that the mother 's reading about the behavior of thefather was unquestionably taken over during the relationship and afterwards and that the report creates too one-sided a picture.

The mother sees no possibility for joint custody and also not for parental mediation because she is afraid of (contact with) the father . Also because of his criminal life, she has no faith in him as a parent .


5.4
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there are no possibilities for exercising the joint authority of these parents . There is no communication or consultation between the parents . The court sees no scope for parental mediation now that the commitment and motivation of both parties is necessary for this. The court finds that the mother has sufficiently substantiated that and why she currently has no faith in the father to take steps towards joint parenting . Now the father reading the mother about his behavior in the past and then as in the report fromthe council has been disputed, the court of appeal has looked at objectifiable and uncontested facts. Then the following appears:

- there is no communication or consultation between the parents ;

- the father has been in detention for several serious crimes (October 2013 to October 2014, February 2015 to February 2016 and September 2016 to May 2018) and there is still a criminal case against the father of which it is not clear whether the father this will be prosecuted;

- the last meeting in May 2016 between the father and the minor (who was sitting on the mother of the stepfather of the mother , the Jumbo incident) was accompanied by violence from the father . He has denied the mother 's view of this incident, but has acknowledged that he has taken the minor away and given the stepfather a push.

All in all, the Court of Appeal finds that there is now no form of communication between the parents , that there is no insight into the realization of this communication in the foreseeable future and that, partly in view of the uncertainty that exists about the criminal case that is still open (still) there are no options for deploying assistance in the short term .

This means that in the interests of the minor the Court of Appeal finds it necessary not to determine joint parental authority .

Dealing


5.5
A child has the right to associate with his parents and with the person who has a close personal relationship with him. This right is, as regards not the authority responsible parent and the person in a close personal relationship with the child is guaranteed by Article 1: to 377a paragraph 1 Dutch Civil Code, Article 8 of the Convention Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR), Article 9, paragraph 3 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and Article 24, paragraph 3, Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU.


5.6
The judge can only deny the parent who is not charged with custody the right to have contact with the child on the grounds listed in Article 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code, where:

a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of

the child , or

b. the parent must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or

c. the child who is twelve years or older , when he interrogates serious objections to interaction

has shown with his parent , or

d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.7
The father understands that no access arrangement can be started at this time , but here too he finds that parenting mediation is the way to improve communication between parties so that contact can be achieved.

The mother is opposed to intercourse , she has no confidence whatsoever in the father , there is nothing to indicate that he has left behind his criminal life and she thinks that, due to the many detentions, he is not reliable in complying with a possible access arrangement .


5.8
The aforementioned objectifiable and uncontested facts are also grounds for the Court of Appeal to judge that there should now be no interaction between the father and the minor because the Court finds this contrary to the minor interests of the minor . Especially the safety aspects and the lack of confidence of the mother in the father in this area weigh heavily. The father has not shown to date that he has left behind his criminal way of life and he has given, also at the hearing, little insight and transparency about his living, living and financial circumstances. In addition, theminor is not yet aware that the father is her biological father . This information has only just been set in motion. A possible interaction must also be predictable and offer continuity for the minor . As long as the father regularly stays in prison, this will not be possible. Regarding the parenting mediation proposed by the father to come to an access arrangement : the court sees no possibilities for this in the short term and refers to the considerations under 5.4 above.

Information scheme


5.9
Under Article 1: 377b paragraph 1 DCC is the parent with the authority responsible held not by the authority responsible parent updated information on important matters relating to the minor . At the request of a parent , the court can determine an arrangement in this regard. If the interests of the minor so require, the court may, on request or ex officio, decide that the first paragraph does not apply.


5.10
The father objects to the condition set by the court with regard to the obligation to provide information . He believes that he has an unlimited right to information.


5.11
The court sees, unlike the father , the condition that the first four times before he receives periodic information about the minor from the mother he himself takes an initiative in the form of a message, photo or card, as valuable and important to trust to build up with the mother . The father himself indicates that he thinks that the mother will be able to cooperate with him as a parent and can start the conversation with him. That requires quite a lot from the mother and something can be expected from the father because of the motherto do this. An initiative as described in the condition set by the court is a minimal effort that can be expected from the father .

The court will therefore maintain that condition. At the hearing it became clear that the father had once met this condition by sending a card, but because of a misunderstanding this did not end up with the mother . It is unfortunate that the provision of information has not yet got off the ground. The Court of Appeal therefore assumes that parties will start again with the obligation to provide information and with the condition for the next four times information is provided by the mother .

The court sees no reason to set the frequency of the information obligation higher than the court has done.

Superfluously


5.12
The father is the father of the minor and the minor therefore has the right to get to know her father and to get him a place in her life. This requires an effort from both parents . On the father 's side to leave his life of prison in and out and to be open to the mother about his living, living and financial situation and to ensure that the mother regains confidence in him. Also to show that he is a stable reliable father for the minor may be interested in her, whom she can count on with a certain regularity, who can offer her continuity and security and in whom she will not be disappointed. On the part of the mother to continue with the status information to the minor , to find space within and after her therapy for recognition of a place of the father in the life of the minor and to look for status information afterwards go to opportunities for supervised intercourse between the father and the minor at D, for example.

Both parents can be expected to do their best to empathize with each other's feelings. The father 's feeling of being misunderstood as a father and feeling left out. The feeling of the mother towards the father of distrust and insecurity.

The Court sees the introduction and fulfillment of the obligation to provide information as the first step towards further interpretation of the father in his wish to actually have a place in the life of his daughter.


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the grievances fail. The court of appeal will ratify the contested decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the Northern Netherlands court, Leeuwarden location of 18 April 2018.

This decision was made by mrs. MP den Hollander, RA Boon and JG Idsardi, assisted by M. Marsnerova, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 10 January 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 204