Content indication
Continuation of supervision is not a feasible goal (due to the attitude and behavior of the mother ) and will be terminated.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-08-20
Publication date
2019-09-11
Case number
200.259.150 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court of appeal 200.259.150 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/164717 / FJ RK 18-1250)

decision of 20 August 2019

applicant,

residing in A,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: JMM Pater in Emmeloord, the Netherlands

and

the certified institution

Protection and Safety Control Center ,

respondent on appeal,

established in Leeuwarden,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.
The following is designated as an interested party:

the father ,

residing in B,

to be called further: the father .


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of 6 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 6 May 2019;

- a journal report from mr. Pater of 3 June 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from the GI of 6 June 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr. Pater of 19 June 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr Pater of 5 July 2019;

- a letter from the GI of 8 July 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr Pater of 8 July 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 10 July 2019. The mother has appeared, assisted by K. Benchaïb (office colleague of Mr. Pater). C, Mrs D and Mrs E have appeared on behalf of the GI .


3 The facts

3.1
From the now broken relationship between the father and the mother , the minor (hereafter referred to as: the minor ) was born in 2013 , over whom the parents jointly exercise authority . the minor lives with the mother .


3.2
By decision of 7 March 2018, the juvenile court judge placed the minor under the supervision of the GI until 7 March 2019. That period was extended by the contested decision until

March 7, 2020.


3.3
By decision of December 14, 2018, the request of the GI for authorization to place the minor out of home has been accepted and the juvenile court has

NIFP investigation ordered. By decision of 18 January 2019, the juvenile court appointed an expert for this purpose to answer the research questions referred to in that decision with regard to the application for placement of the minor and the possibilities for shaping (structural) contact between the minor and the father .


3.4
By decision of 19 April 2019, the juvenile court judge granted the GI (replacement) permission to conduct conversations with only the minor as part of the supervision order.


3.5
The research carried out by NIFP is recorded in three reports from

10 May 2019. On the basis of the results of these reports, the GI asked the juvenile court , by petition of 5 June 2019, to suspend the minor 's supervision of the child in the meantime.


3.6
By order of 5 July 2019, the juvenile court judge upheld his decision at the aforementioned request of the GI until the pro forma session of 4 September 2019 and requested the GI for the decision of the court as soon as possible, but in any case before

September 4, 2019, to be sent to the court.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
By the contested decision, declared enforceable in stock, of 6 March 2019, the juvenile court judge extended the period of the supervision order to 7 March 2020.


4.2
The mother appealed against the contested decision. It aims to fully address the dispute on appeal. The mother requests the court, enforceable in stock, to annul the contested decision and to again reject the GI 's preliminary request .


4.3
The GI did not submit a statement of defense but indicated at the hearing to refer to the judgment of the court.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 260, first paragraph, in connection with Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), the juvenile court judge may extend the supervision of a minor by a maximum of one year if a minor grows up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
The Court of Appeal ruled on the basis of the documents that at the time of the contested decision the legal criterion for (the extension of the) supervision of the minor had been met . However, on the basis of the NIFP reports of 10 May 2019 issued below, the GI 's request for the interim cessation of the supervision order and what (further) emerged during the oral procedure, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the supervision procedure should no longer be continued. The court considers the following for this purpose.


5.3
The file shows that there is a long-term (legal) struggle between the parents that is becoming increasingly hardened , so that the situation is now stuck. Due to a complete lack of trust in each other and the constant tensions of the mother in possible interaction between the father and the minor , there is no interaction at all at this moment . Attempts to achieve this, including guided handling via F, have been stranded and various assistance processes (including G and H) aimed at improving communication between theparents have had no effect. Individual care for the mother also does not get off the ground because she indicates that she does not have a request for help, while H has clearly indicated that there must be insight into the mother 's own problems regarding what she may not transfer to the minor , allowing the minor has a (biological) father and to neutralize the negative view of the minor on him. Because the conflict between the parents , and in particular the mother 's resistance to interaction and theminor awareness of the disqualification of the mother towards the father , in the opinion of the council and the juvenile court , a serious threat to the social-emotional development of the minor was placed under supervision in 2018 , to ensure that the minor can have unloaded contact with both parents . The GI subsequently failed to establish this contact, because it turned out to be impossible to make agreements with the motherto come and - despite a written instruction - to conversations with the minor , and to gain insight into her development . There is a disturbed cooperation between the GI and the mother , with the GI indicating that the mother is withholding any form of cooperation and the mother states that he or she does not trust the GI's working method. Because it was not possible to work on the development threats of the minor in this way , and the youth protectors had alarming signalssaw with regard to the load of the mother of the minor where her father is concerned, the GI in November 2018 a request for authorization for court custody of the minor filed in order from a neutral place to parental conflict and the contact structure between the minor and the father to work. according to the GI, the minor has made statements that indicate that the mother shares negative events and / or past experiences with her.


5.4
The NIFP follows reports that home placement is not in the interest of the minor is deemed short because the minor is not in its development is threatened and grows up in a safe family environment. The report also shows that under the current conflicting circumstances between the parents , whereby the initiation of intercourse only causes tension and stress for both the mother and the minor , the contact between the minor and herfather will be harmful. the minor experiences a serious loyalty conflict , which she resolved with a clear choice for her mother , resulting in denial of the father . The tension that the minor shows and her refusal towards the father seems to be based on her bond with the mother on whom she is dependent. According to the NIFP, the mother does not see what function the father could have as a parent of the minor and howminor could benefit from this in her development . However, prior to initiating access arrangements, the conflict between the two parents must first be resolved in such a way that they can achieve mutual understanding, trust and respect in each other as a parent . According to the NIFP, this can be achieved through system therapy.


5.5
Although the GI is of the opinion that the identified development threats are still undiminished and that parental alienation can (in the meantime) be referred to, it has indicated that under supervision under the current circumstances, in particular in view of the results of the NIFP study, currently has no added value.


5.6
As the court also in its earlier decision of June 28, 2018 - regarding care arrangements between the father and the minor - has considered forming the objections mother (from the past) towards the father is insufficient reason to minors and the father the right to to take contact with each other. It is not disputed that the minor is a happy girl who is doing well both at home and at school. However, the court emphasizes that one

The fundamental right of every child is contact with and involvement of both parents ; know who your mother and father are. If something goes wrong here (from an early age), there is a good chance that problems will arise with self-image, entering into relationships, having difficulty with trust and (healthy) loosening or turning against the caregiving parent , which problems often arise during adolescence. The Court of Appeal finds it very worrying that the mother, despite all her advice, efforts, and various care processes that she is partly responsible for under supervisiondue and the absence of contraindications for contact has not been able to give the father any role in the life of the minor , and that they include judicial decisions (even if a penalty is included) and written instruction (s) in addition to submits. This appeal has again shown that the overriding resistance of the mother means that she does not recognize her role in the concerns expressed by various professionals regarding the minor and is unable to put aside her own feelings in the interest of her daughter. to put. The father gets no chance to image the motherhas to adjust, as a result of which the minor grows up with an image of the father colored by the mother so that she has no possibility of forming her own image, let alone a positive image, of him. The Court endorses the GI's view that the present problems, such as loyalty problems and parental rejection , are signaled by the NIFP, but that the report does not under-focus the long-term consequences of these development threats for the minor (and both parents ). .

The court also does not read anything in the report about the necessity of individual assistance for the mother , while the report does show that the mother seems to have (in the meantime) given a place for her own fear and negative experiences in her relationship with the father and that she now wants to form an ideal picture with her new partner in which there is no room for the father . Information in the file from the ROH-GGZ confirms this picture. In this context, the Court of Appeal finds that there is no longer any question of powerlessness at the mother but of unwillingness. As far as the mother states that she is ready for rest, the court notes that the motherhas in the meantime had ample time to break through the situation and come to solutions, but that all the possibilities that the mother (and the father ) are offered in this have led to nothing. As time goes by, the situation surrounding the (lack of) contact between the father and the minor and the image that the minor gets of her father will only lead to further removal between them.


5.7
The court is faced with a difficult choice. On the one hand there is a situation in which the parents are constantly in a (legal) struggle in which the minor is burdened by the mother with tension and unrest and on the other hand the situation in which the minor is deprived of the possibility to build a bond with her father because the mother blocks any form of contact. The Court of Appeal finds, partly in view of what the GI and the mother have argued about this, that the supervision order is more likely to lead to a further removal between thehas led parents to see that the measure has yielded something. In view of this and of all means that have been unsuccessfully deployed to date, as well as the conclusions in the NIFP report, the Court of Appeal cannot but conclude that continuation of the custody does not serve a feasible goal and, in view of all the extra tension it entails. is in the best interests of the minor . In considering the matter, the Court of Appeal takes into account that there are currently no concrete concerns about (the functioning of) the minor .


5.8
Finally, the court considers that it is now up to the mother to ensure that she takes her responsibility and keeps her promises. The mother stated at the hearing that she understands that the father should be given a role in the life of the minor and that she is open to system therapy (through the municipality), as advised by NIFP, whereby not only the parents , but also the new partners and possibly grandparent (s) have a role. The Court of Appeal also considers this form of therapy appropriate because the file clearly shows that the mother was unable to stimulate the minor in contact with thefather but also that she is supported and strengthened in this by her immediate environment . The court also advises the mother to use assistance for herself in order to gain more insight into her attitude and behavior and in particular the consequences of this for the development of the minor . It goes without saying that a monthly telephone conversation (with the doctor or the neighborhood team), as is currently the case, is completely insufficient for this. The court emphasizes the urgency of the aforementioned assistance , so that contact between the minor and the father can be restored in the foreseeable future.work can be done since a lot of precious time has passed in the still young life of the minor .


6 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision, insofar as the decision concerns custody to date. The Court of Appeal will annul the contested decision as of today and decide as stated below.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the juvenile court in the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of March 6, 2019, insofar as it concerns the supervision of the minor up to the present and annuls that decision for the rest;

and to that extent again decisive:

Rejects the request of the GI for (extension of) the supervision of the minor insofar as this extends over the period from now on;

declares this decision enforceable from stock.

This decision was made by mrs. MP den Hollander, JDSL Bosch and

MAF Holtvluwer-Veenstra, assisted by mr. E. Klijn as clerk, and is gone

August 20, 2019 pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 6838