Content indication
Contact arrangement. Hof denies father the right to contact his 10-year-old daughter. The father is convicted under criminal law for arson and threats to the mother and there is a prohibition on contact . Daughter has no room for contact, she has been damaged by tensions and collisions between the parents and is following a counseling process . She needs rest.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-14
Publication date
2019-02-20
Case number
200.237.598 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.237.598 / 01

(Case number Court of Overijssel C / 08/191636 / ES RK 16-3796)

decision of 14 February 2019
on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: JCE Siebenga-Moggré in Zwolle, the Netherlands,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: K. Visscher in Kampen.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the certified Youth Protection Agency Overijssel , having its office in Zwolle, hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 The proceedings at first instance
The court refers to the order of the court of Overijssel, court seat Zwolle, of January 19, 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with productions, received on 18 April 2018; - the defense with productions); - the GI's defense; - a letter from the Council for Child Protection (hereinafter the Board ) of April 26, 2018 with productions; - a journal report from Siebenga-Moggré of 2 May 2018 with productions; - a journal report from mr. Siebenga-Moggré of 22 May 2018 with production (s); - a journal report from Mr. Visscher of 4 June 2018 with productions; - a letter from the GI of 10 November 2018 with production (s); - a journal report from Siebenga-Moggré of 28 November 2018 with productions;- a journal report from Siebenga-Moggré of 30 November 2018 with productions;

- a letter from the GI of 10 December 2018 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 14 December 2018. Appeared are the father and his lawyer, the mother and her (acting) lawyer mr. CW Timmer. On behalf of the board appeared C and D and on behalf of the GI appeared E. Both lawyers have submitted pleadings.


3 3. The facts

3.1
The father and the mother are the parents of the minor , born in 2008 (hereinafter: the minor ) over whom they jointly exercise parental authority . In addition to the minor , the parents also have - meanwhile adult - children from previous relationships.
3.2
The mother , as far as is relevant here, on September 21, 2016 a divorce petition with additional requests filed with the court, the mother asked the principal residence of the minor decide on her.


3.3
partly as a result of the problematic divorce (and detention of the father ) by the juvenile court judge, the minor has been placed under the supervision of the GI from 3 October 2016 , most recently extended to 22 June 2019.
3.4
The father filed a defense on December 6, 2016 and, so far as here relevant, independently requested to provide that care arrangements between the father and the minor is established - if necessary in cooperation with professional help - meaning that the minor with the father will be to agree a weekend from Friday evening to Sunday evening once every fortnight with half of the school holidays and public holidays, by mutual agreement.


3.5
By order of 4 May 2017, the District Court, insofar as it is still relevant here, pronounced the divorce between the parties and decided: - that the minor 's principal residence will be with the mother ; - that the decision on the care arrangement is maintained.


3.6
The council has released 2017 report on October 25 and in it the court, as far as here relevant, recommended to the request of the father establishing a care regime refuse to.
3.7
In short, the contested decision made a decision in accordance with the aforementioned advice of the council .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The dispute in these proceedings concern the care arrangements or contacts between the father and the minor and to possibly connect penalty .
4.2
The father asks the court - in essence - the contested decision on the aforementioned destruction point and make arrangements to establish meaning that there is contact will be between the minor and the father - for the first two months, once every fortnight for an afternoon

under the supervision of a trusted person to be designated by the minor , other than the mother , a person with whom the father can agree; - then a Saturday once every fortnight for two months

from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. with the father ; - then once every fortnight for a weekend from 6:00 pm Friday evening until

Sunday evening 6 pm and half of the holidays and public holidays. In addition, the father requests the court to determine that the mother forfeits a penalty of € 500 for every time she does not comply with the regulation.


4.3
The mother puts forward a defense and requests the court - rendered concisely - to declare the father inadmissible in his requests or to reject those requests and to ratify the contested decision, or at least to limit the penalty to € 1 per violation with a time limit shorter than three months, and order the father to pay the costs.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The parties are jointly responsible for the parental authority over the minor . Pursuant to Article 1: 253a of the Civil Code (BW), the court may, at the request of the parents or one of them, establish a regulation concerning the exercise of parental authority , including an allocation to each of the parents of the care and upbringing duties and only if the interests of the child so require, a temporary prohibition on a parent to have contact with the child with corresponding application of Section 1: 377a, third paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code.
5.2
Under 1: 377a paragraph 3, DCC denies the judge the right to association only if:

a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of

the child , or

b. the parent must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or

c. the child who is twelve years or older , when he interrogates serious objections to interaction

has shown with his parent , or

d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests . In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, there is a situation in the present case where forced interaction between the minor and the father conflicts with the minor's important interests . The Court of Appeal considers this as follows.


5.3
The father left the former marital home on or around 31 August 2016 after a fierce argument between the parents . Since then there has been no contact between the minor and the father . The father was on April 25, 2017 criminally convicted of arson and threats (the mother ) to imprisonment for twenty-two months of which fifteen months probation, with the expiry of the probationary period, according to the documents first expires on June 19, 2021. One of the special conditions in the context of that conviction is a ban on thefather to contact and / or maintain contact with the mother as long as the probation officer deems this necessary. That special condition (s) still applies. On November 6, 2018 , the father had a reprimand for a violation of that contact ban . The Integral Evaluation Report of the Probation Service, dated November 28, 2018, nevertheless shows that overall there have been positive developments on the part of the father and that he has cooperated with the set conditions. Thanks in part to the help and guidance that has been deployed (including from F) there is now more stability in the psychological functioning of thefather , his living situation and financially. Insofar as it was argued on behalf of the mother at the hearing that the father did not take good steps, the court of appeal does not read that back in the aforementioned report. However, the foregoing does not alter the fact that according to the GI, the mother and the council there is currently no room at all for the minor to contact the father . the minor has been damaged by the tensions and clashes between her parents . The fatherdid not dispute that either and expressed his understanding of it at the hearing. There seems thus to be a discrepancy between the father's request before the court and the explanation at the father's session . However, apart from that, the court does not currently see any possibilities for granting the father 's request for forced (build-up of) contact with the minor in the current circumstances. A counseling process has recently been started for the minor under the direction of the GI, in consultation with G youth care . She was registered in July 2018 for a creative training moduleat H. From the submitted report of that, the Court of Appeal deduces that the minor currently has a great need for peace, clarity, stability, home security and positivity. the minor needs space to be able to be a child and to be able to focus on play, friendships, school and sports and such. the minor knows well what she wants and does not want and can express that well. With the minor there is currently no room for contact with the father . He may be there, the report states, but the way there (the court understands; to the father)) is currently not accessible. On the basis of the above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that forced contact with the father is expected to have an adverse effect and a negative influence on the peace of mind and development of the minor and therefore contrary to her weighty interests.
5.4
The court adds the following to the foregoing. The ongoing supervision was and still has the aim of continuing to look for opportunities for contact recovery between the minor and the father . At the moment it is not possible to predict when the minor will be ready to re-establish contact with the father . The Court of Appeal assumes that the mother as a care parent - and the GI for the duration of the custody - will continue to monitor this according to the needs of the minor and that the assistance will be partly aimed at possibilities for recovery. From the council report, the Court of Appeal deduces that the mother has explicitly indicated that he wants to keep the interests of the minor in mind. The Court of Appeal points out to the mother that her - and this also applies to the father - also has the legal obligation to promote the development of ties between the child and the other parent .


5.5
On the basis of the above, the court of appeal will reject the requests of the father on appeal.
5.6
The court does not see any reason for a costs order as requested by the mother . As usual in cases such as the present, the Court of Appeal will compensate the costs of proceedings in such a way that each of the parties bears its own costs of the proceedings.

6 The conclusion
The foregoing leads to the ratification of the contested decision in so far as it is subject to this appeal.

7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the order of the court of Overijssel, court of Zwolle, of January 19, 2018 in so far as it is subject to this appeal;

compensates the costs of proceedings in such a way that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. R. Feunekes, A. Smeeing-van Hees and

AW Beversluis, assisted by AJTh. Harkema as clerk and was pronounced in public on February 14, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 1634