Content indication
replacement authorization approval
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-06-13
Publication date
2019-07-25
Case number
200,253,557
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Civil Registry and Country Information Module 2019/5213
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

case number court of appeal 200.253.557 / 01

(case number court Gelderland 338121)

decision of 13 June 2019

on

applicant,

residing at residence, the applicant,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: CGM van Rossum in Bemmel, the Netherlands,

and

defendant,

living at home,

defendant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: WJL Zwaan in Amersfoort.

The other interested party is considered to be:

RM Tjong Kim Sang, LL.M.

in her capacity as special liquidator ,

office in Lent, municipality of Nijmegen,

to be called further: the special liquidator .


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the order of the Gelderland District Court, Arnhem (further: the District Court), of 23 October 2018, as restored by order of 14 February 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with productions, received on January 23, 2019;

- the defense on appeal with productions;

- a journal report from the special liquidator of 20 March 2019 with production.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 21 May 2019. The mother and father appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. The guardian ad litem has also appeared. On behalf of the board for the child , continue: the council , associate RvdK appeared.


3 The facts

3.1
Child born out of the mother on birth date 2016 , hereafter to be referred to as: child . The mother is legally charged with the parental authority over child .


3.2
The father submitted a petition to the court on 4 June 2018 seeking replacement consent for the recognition of a child and establishing an access arrangement between him and the child for a weekend in the fourteen days from Saturday 11 a.m. to a 7 p.m. Sunday, and dividing the holidays and public holidays in mutual consultation.


3.3
By order of 28 June 2018, the court appointed Tjong Kim Sang as special guardian of a child .


3.4
By the aforementioned order of 23 October 2018, further: the contested decision, the court, to the extent relevant here, granted the father substitute permission for the recognition of child as his child and:

- a provisional access arrangement has been established whereby the father and child are in contact with each other once a week at the Omganghuis , on a date and at a time to be determined, whereby the contact is extended by means of a six-month accrual to an arrangement whereby the child one day a week without overnight stay with the father ;

- the parties were given the opportunity to follow a counseling module at Lindenhout, for which the parties must report to their general practitioner or the district team for referral, any further pro forma decision held until April 23, 2019, and the parties' lawyers requested before that date about the state of affairs.


3.5
By recovery order of 14 February 2019, the court ruled that the decision regarding the provisional access arrangement is enforceable.


3.6
The mother has requested this court to order the suspension of the operation of the contested decision, insofar as it concerns the decision referred to above under 3.4, as restored by decision of 14 February 2019, concerning the provisional access arrangements. The father has put up a defense.


3.7
By decision of 14 May 2019 (case number 200.253.557 / 02), this court of appeal rejected the request of the mother mentioned under 3.6 .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The mother lodged an appeal against the contested decision with five complaints. These grievances relate to the replacement permission granted for the recognition of the child by the father and the established (provisional) access arrangements .

The mother requests the Court to annul the contested decision and, once again, to declare the father inadmissible in his requests, or at least to reject those requests.


4.2
The father defends. The father requests the court, by order as far as possible enforceable in stock, to declare the appeal inadmissible, or at least to reject it and to maintain the contested decision, costs legally.


5 The reasons for the decision
with regard to the replacement permission for recognition


5.1
The parties do not dispute that the father , the causative agent of a child .


5.2
Pursuant to Article 1: 204 paragraph 1 opening sentence and under c. of the Civil Code (BW) the father can only recognize a child with the prior written consent of the mother .


5.3
If the consent of the mother to recognize the pathogen missing, may under Article 1: 204 paragraph 3 Dutch Civil Code at the request of the person who the child wants to recognize such authorization shall be replaced by the consent of the court, unless the interests of the mother in an undisturbed relationship with the child or a balanced social psychological and emotional development of the child is compromised, provided that this person is the causative agent of the child .

In doing so, a balance must be made between the interests of those involved, taking into account that both the child and the causative person are entitled to have their relationship legally recognized as a family law legal relationship.


5.4
The court of appeal refers to what the court considered and decides in the contested decision with regard to the granting of substitute permission for the recognition of a child by the father , and makes these considerations and decision - after its own investigation - his own.

The court also considers as follows.

In a telephone conversation in April 2018, the friend of the father expressed the threat that the father might take the child away from the mother . The mother states that this has made her so anxious that she can no longer work and that she has taken a child out of childcare and no longer allows her to play outside with other children . The mother has also been very protective towards children since then . child has there according to the mothersuch a burden that she is harmed in a balanced social psychological and emotional development and that an undisturbed and happy relationship between the mother and child is in serious danger.

The court does not consider the fear that the mother claims to be incomprehensible. However, the court of appeal is of the opinion that there are no clues, neither in the behavior of the father last year nor in the statements of the father , which could indicate that the father will take the child away from the mother . Of threats on the part of the father of his girlfriend in that sense has not revealed after the aforementioned call. It may be that the mother is bothered by that fear, but then it is on her way to do so, partly in the interest of the child , seek help. It has not been shown that the mother's fear has an effect on the development of a child . Even on appeal, the mother has not substantiated the (possible) psychological consequences for her child of her recognition by the father .

The court ignores the mother 's statement that her fear has only increased because the father has been practically aloof since April 2018. The father has stated that the mother is difficult to reach for him and that the mother has kept the contact pending the present proceedings. The mother did not contradict this statement, or at least insufficiently.

The Court of Appeal, together with the guardian ad litem, is of the opinion that the emotional resistance of the mother to the recognition of a child by the father is less important than the interest of the child and the father to obtain a family law relationship through that recognition.


5.5
The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision, insofar as it relates to the replacement permission for recognition.

with regard to the access arrangement


5.6
The court assumes that the father will use the substitute permission is granted and that as a (legal) parent the right to deal with his daughter's child , unless there is denial grounds (Article 1: 377a BW).


5.7
The Court of Appeal finds that after the birth of the child , contact between the father and child took place five times until the end of June 2017 . In November 2017, the parties agreed on a composition of the access arrangement via the lawyers . As part of this access arrangement , the father also had contact with the child several times . The guardian ad litem in its letter of March 20, 2019 states that the circumstances described therein shows that the intention was to work together for a child to be.


5.8
The mother explains that the father during intercourse has shown little interest in the past in child and that during the intercourse child did not want to care. The father disputes these statements.


5.9
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the propositions put forward by the mother do not entail a contra-indication for the interaction between the father and child . The mother is afraid child in the Association House to give the supervisors the deal . It is on the mother 's path to seek help for that fear. For the rest, - in the opinion of the Court of Appeal - there has been no evidence of contraindications against the provisional relationship between the father and child in the Omgangshuis .


5.10
The Court of Appeal takes into account the foregoing that during the oral hearing the mother stated on appeal that she had meanwhile sought contact with the neighborhood team and Lindenhout (now merged with Entrea). The Court of Appeal therefore assumes that this assistance process will be used to improve communication between parties and to restore trust between the mother and father .


5.11
On the basis of all the foregoing, the Court of Appeal will not make a different decision with regard to the access arrangement than the court made in the contested decision.


6 The conclusion
The grievances have been presented in vain. The court of appeal will decide as follows and compensate the costs of this appeal procedure.


7 The decision
The court in appeal:

endorses the decision of the Gelderland District Court, Arnhem, seat of

October 23, 2018, as restored by order of February 14, 2019;

compensates litigation costs on appeal, so that everyone bears their own costs

This decision was made by mrs. A. Smeeïng-van Hees, JH Lieber and

KAM van Os-ten Have and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 13 June 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4987