Content indication
Extension of supervision . Father without authority .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-23
Publication date
2019-10-10
Case number
200,256,072
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.256.072

(Case numbers Court of Gelderland 343943 and 345612)

decision of 23 May 2019

on

the mother ,

residing at residence, the appellant on appeal, hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. AL Witteveen in Rotterdam,

and

the certified institution

Youth Protection Foundation Gelderland,

established in Arnhem,

respondent on appeal, hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the father ,

living at home,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: F. van den Heuvel in Arnhem ..


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the juvenile court judge in the Gelderland court, Arnhem court, of 3 December 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with productions, received on 28 February 2019;

- the defense;

- a journal report from mr. Witteveen of 17 April 2019 with productions 10 to 15;

- an email from mr. Van den Heuvel of 30 April 2019 with the production of a ruling of this court of 25 April 2019.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 2 May 2019. The mother appeared in person, assisted by her lawyer. No one appeared on behalf of the GI .

No one appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board ).


3 The facts

3.1
On the date of birth, the place of birth was born from the relationship between the mother and the father : child (hereinafter referred to as: child ). The mother is only charged with custody of the child .


3.2
The child was placed under supervision for the first time by an oral decision of the Gelderland District Court, Arnhem, from January 15, 2018, from January 15, 2018 to January 15, 2019.


3.3
By order of the Gelderland District Court of 20 July 2018, the father 's request to charge him and the mother with custody of child was rejected, the (interim) order of the same court of 2 March 2018 was amended in the sense that the access arrangement between the father and child is stopped until the court has decided otherwise and any further decision has been reserved. The father appealed against this decision.

By order of this court of 25 April 2019, the order of the court, insofar as it establishes a provisional access arrangement between the father and child , and stipulates that an access arrangement will be started with the frequency, duration and guidance that the GI considers it to be in the best interest of the child . The court's decision has been confirmed for the rest.


3.4
By order of the Gelderland District Court of 5 April 2019 a guardian ad litem was appointed with the task of making efforts with regard to child , including advising and reporting on the questions submitted to the guardian ad litem regarding the relationship between the father and child .


3.5
By the contested decision - declared enforceable in stock - of 3 December 2018, the juvenile court judge extended the period of supervision by 15 January 2020.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The mother appealed against the decision of 3 December 2018 with two complaints. She primarily requests the Court to annul that decision and, once again, to reject the GI 's request , alternatively

shorten the duration of the supervision order.


4.2
The GI defends and requests the ratification of the contested decision or the rejection of the mother 's request .


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The father 's lawyer informed the court in the aforementioned e-mail message of 30 April 2019 that she had ascertained that the court considered the father to be an informant and requested the father to be regarded as an interested party, as the court of first instance also because the father has an interest in the assessment of the request for extension of the supervision order .

Now that the GI is concerned, among other things, with initiating the access arrangement between the child and the father and with supervision , in the sense that these directly affect the interests of the father , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there are special circumstances that that this can be deviated from the main rule that a father without authority is not considered to be an interested party. The Court of Appeal therefore considered the father to be an interested party at the start of the oral hearing on appeal.


5.2
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 260, first paragraph, in connection with Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), the juvenile court judge may extend the supervision of a minor by a maximum of one year if a minor grows up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.3
The mother can not agree with the extension of the supervision of the child . She argues that poor communication between the parents and the somatic complaints in children are not sufficient reason to justify supervision . There is no concrete serious development threat . The sole purpose of the supervision order is to start an access arrangement .

The mother argues that the authorities confirm that the child is lovingly raised by her. It accepts necessary assistance in order to eliminate the development threat - if there is one. For example, it itself turned to integrative child therapy for child . She disputes that she does not cooperate enough in deploying assistance for herself to learn how to deal with her negative feelings about the father . The authorities are of the opinion that the situation of child has improved, but that child is not yet experiencing sufficient space for starting contacts with the father . In support of this, the mother submits various statements from the care providers , not only from the child therapist and family counseling, but also from the clinical forensic psychologist who has performed a clinical diagnostic examination of a child .

Insofar as contact between the father and child is in the interest of the child (in the sense that there is room for that with the child ), or if the now appointed guardian ad litem is of the opinion that there must be contact, she will promote this contact. In view of the assistance that has already been deployed , being under supervision does not have sufficient added value and is actually a burden on the child . Forced help will cause a lot of stress for her and her child . The youth protectoris difficult for the mother to reach , she has only seen him twice and he has never seen a child . The youth protector has not taken any steps towards providing assistance . The guardian ad litem can represent the interests of the child .

The mother also claims that the court has disregarded the complaint decision of the council of 13 March 2018 and that, according to her, the court referred to a ruling that is not comparable to the present situation. The court has wrongly not reviewed Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) and Article 3 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and has interfered with private and family life. of the mother allowed by the public authorities . The court has erred in law and failed to provide adequate reasons for the decision.


5.4
The GI has stated in the defense that child seriously in its development is threatened due to lack of contact with the father , poor communication , the permanent severely impaired understanding, the struggle between the parents and the vulnerability of children in connection with his health problems . The counseling observes that a lot is going on with the child . child shows PTSD reactions and frightening behavior and is still regularly attacked by anger, powerlessness and sadness. Contact with his father is important for the identity development of a child . It is important to monitor the well-being of the child and to monitor what assistance the child needs now and in the future. It is positive that the child benefits from assistance from the Evergreen GGZ family counselor and the child therapist , but the GI notices that these agencies are proactive about the legal side of the matter. This gives the impression that the assistance is on the hand of the motherand that it is therefore difficult to get a good view of the state of affairs. The GI remains of the opinion that a form of contact with the father should be possible, for example via the Omgangshuis in Arnhem.

The mother proves militant in withholding contact between the child and the father and makes the necessary efforts to that end. For example, she has submitted complaints to the council with regard to the council report and she has filed dozens of complaints about the family guardian with the complaints committee. The mother indicates that she has consulted with the ombudsman and is likely to make a complaint against the youth protector with the Stichting Kwaliteitsregister Jeugd. In addition, the mother asked for another youth protector because the current youth protectoris a man and that this evokes bad feelings because of her past. The mother must call in the assistance for the processing of her past experiences .


5.5
During the oral hearing, the father explained that discussions are currently being held with the special bankruptcy trustee appointed by the court . The father 's lawyer expects the youth protector , the guardian ad litem and the psychologist to look for cooperation and to see from their expertise what is appropriate in the context of starting the contact between child and his father .

According to the father, the mother can only work well with assistance that she agrees with. Once that's not the case, the slide mother the rescuers to the side and she has any complaints against them. In response to the conclusion of the behavioral expert who works at the GI, namely that there are no contraindications, an expert report follows on the part of the mother in which the opposite is claimed. The school does not see the trauma symptoms that the care and the mother have observed in children . All kinds of attempts and measures to deal withgetting off the ground, such as calling in a manor house and imposing a penalty , did not lead to results. The mother did not cooperate sufficiently in providing assistance to normalize the situation between them as parents of children . The fact that a child has been in the care of his parents for years means that there is indeed a threatened development .


5.6
On the basis of the documents and what emerged during the oral hearing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, contrary to what the mother claims, the grounds for being placed under supervision are still present. In the judgment of 15 January 2018, the juvenile court judge placed the child under supervision . The mother did not appeal against that decision. In that judgment, the juvenile court considered that child grows up without being able to form his own image of his father , that there is a struggle between the parents and a serious disturbed mutual understanding and that the parents until now failed to independently the development threat to child take away and the handling of a child non-invasive way to shape. The Court of Appeal finds that no change has occurred in that situation. In the meantime, a child seems not only to be stuck between his parents, but possibly even between the various care providers involved in his situation. There are differences of opinion about the extent to which child behavior shows that he has been traumatized, but it was already clear from the documents beforehand that the child had serious problems. In connection with this, integrative child therapy was used for him. In addition, the professionals differ as to the extent to which the child is capable of entering into (supervised) contact with his father . In connection with the impasse, the differing views on what is necessary in the best interests of the child and the mistrust between the parents , the court recently appointed a guardian ad litem.

In addition, the Court of Appeal very recently, as a provisional arrangement in the procedure concerning the access arrangement between the father and child, stipulated that an access arrangement should be started with the frequency, duration and guidance that the GI deems most in the best interests of the child . In the present proceedings, too, the Court of Appeal assumes that the GI is sufficiently equipped to make judgments about the contacts between the father and child , the assessment by the counselors of a child and can be considered to be in his best interest and to involve the report of the research carried out by the clinical psychologist and give it the correct weight. In addition to this assessment, the findings of the guardian ad litem will become available in the coming months . Now the advice of the guardian ad litem at the moment is not yet finished and is still completely unclear how the situation will be the future development , it is in view of the serious development threat of child very important that the supervision order is maintained and that the motherwill follow the advice and directions of the family guardian.

In the opinion of the court of appeal, a justified infringement of the "family life" of the mother and child has been made on the basis of the aforementioned . Therefore, the placing in custody is not contrary to the provisions of Article 8 of the ECHR and Article 3 of the CRC.


5.7
Based on the foregoing, the mother 's grievances fail . The Court of Appeal will therefore ratify the contested decision.


6 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the juvenile court in the court of Gelderland, court of Arnhem, of December 3, 2018.

This decision was made by mrs. A. Smeeïng-van Hees, R. Feunekes and CM Koopman, assisted by the clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 23 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4483