Content indication
Dealing with a child is denied a father on the grounds of Article 1: 377a, under a, b and d of the Dutch Civil Code. Father 's request is admissible because a year has passed since the last denial; there is no need for favorable circumstances.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-14
Publication date
2019-05-28
Case number
200.249.214 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.249.214 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/159727 / FA RK 18-248)

decision of 14 May 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: JM Wigman in The Hague,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

JMH Devis in Zoetermeer, lawyer,

previously mr. MJMT van Maarle in Zoetermeer.


1 The course of the appeal proceedings

1.1
The Court of Appeal refers to its interim decision of 6 December 2018. In addition to the notice of appeal, the Court has taken note of the following documents:

- a journal report from mr. Van Maarle of 22 November 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr Wigman of 23 November 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr Wigman of 26 November 2018 with production (s);

- a letter from the Council for Child Protection (called further: the council ) of December 5, 2018.

- the statement of defense of the mother with production (s);

- the report of the Council for Child Protection (hereafter referred to as the Board ) of March 1, 2019.


1.2
The court has received:

- a journal report from Mr. Devis of 11 April 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr Wigman of 12 April 2019 with production (s).


1.3
The oral hearing took place on 15 April 2019. The parents appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. Mr C. has appeared on behalf of the Board in the context of his advisory role. Mr. Wigman objected to the presentation of the journal report of 11 April 2019 by journal report of 12 April 2019 and explained at the hearing, because it is impossible to see why those documents could not be submitted earlier and he is not in a position to do so. been to discuss those documents with the father , so that the fatherharmed in its process position. The Court of Appeal then decided that that journal report with production (s) is not taken into account, because these were submitted without necessity just before the oral hearing.


2 The facts

2.1
The father and the mother had a relationship from the end of 2005 to the end of 2009. The minor (hereafter referred to as the minor ) was born from this relationship in 2008 . The mother exercises authority over the minor . The father has recognized the minor .


2.2
After the relationship of the parents was over, they have an access arrangement agreed, stating that the father every Saturday for several hours in the mother's home association had with the minor . The parents implemented this scheme until the beginning of 2014. The father has turned to the court by petition of March 14, 2014 (among others) with the request for access arrangements to establish one weekend every fortnight. In 2014, on the basis of an interim decision by the court, supervised handling took place six times at theaccess center of D. By judgment of 9 December 2015, a contact ban (with the mother and the minor ) and an area ban were imposed on the father . By order of 13 January 2016, the court rejected the father 's request for the adoption of an access arrangement .


2.3
In a judgment of 18 August 2016, the father was sentenced for defamation of the mother and the minor to, inter alia, a community service sentence of 180 hours and a suspended prison sentence of two months, with a probationary period of two years, with the special conditions that the father is treated by Addiction Care North Netherlands, that the father will not post messages about the mother and the minor on social media, that the father does not contact them and does not consume alcohol. The father is also obliged to cooperate in supervision by the probation service during the probationary period.


2.4
The father requested the court on February 22, 2018 to establish an access arrangement between him and the minor , such that the minor stays with the father one Saturday or Sunday every fourteen days from 11 am to 5 pm , as well as extra days during school holidays, then establish such an access arrangement as the court deems appropriate. He also asked the court to establish an information scheme. By (the contested) order of 1 August 2018, the court determined, enforceable in stock, that the mother is the fathermust inform in writing four times a year about important matters relating to the person and property of the minor . The father 's request for the adoption of an access arrangement has been rejected.


3 The scope of the dispute

3.1
There is a dispute between the parties about the (interpretation of) the father 's right to have contact with the minor . In the contested decision, the father 's request for adoption was rejected.


3.2
The father appealed against the decision of 1 August 2018 with one complaint. This complaint relates to the access arrangement . The father requests the Court of Appeal - as the Court of Appeal reads - to annul the contested decision insofar as it is, and to do so again to properly grant his preliminary request for the adoption of a visitation arrangement , or at least to adopt a visitation arrangement that the court considers correct in good justice.


3.3
The mother puts forward a defense and asks the Court of Appeal to declare the father inadmissible in the appeal that he has lodged, or at least to reject his appeal and to appeal against the contested decision (as the Court of Appeal reads :), in so far as subject to court.


4 The reasons for the decision

4.1
Under Article 1: 377a of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) has a child's right to deal with his parents and has not the authority responsible parent the right and the obligation to deal with his child . Pursuant to paragraph 2, the court at the request of the parents or one of them, whether or not for a fixed period, a system of exercising the rights of fixed or deny whether or not for some time, the right to association . According to paragraph 3, the court denied the right of association only if:a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of

the child , or b. the parent must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or c. the child who is twelve years or older , when he interrogates serious objections to interaction

has shown with his parent , or d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


4.2
Pursuant to the established case law of the Supreme Court, which is also laid down in Article 1: 377e paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, any rejection of a request for the adoption of a visitation arrangement and any decision that has been denied access is temporary in nature, in the sense that the parent whose request has been refused in the event of a change in circumstances and can in any case, after the lapse of a year, go to court again to have an access arrangement established.

A request for adoption of a visitation arrangement on the basis of Article 1: 377e paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code may be rejected if there are one or more grounds for refusal listed in Article 1: 377a (3) of the Dutch Civil Code.


4.3
Now that more than a year has elapsed since the decision of 13 January 2016 mentioned above under 2.2 (whereby the father 's request for adoption of an access arrangement has been rejected) has become final, the father is admissible in his request, separately whether there is a change of circumstances, and the decision to which the association is denied or the request to establish an access arrangement was rejected, be changed.


4.4
If the court deems the grounds that the parent charged with custody does not cooperate with the establishment or implementation of a visitation arrangement , he should take all appropriate measures in the given case to shorten the person charged with custody. to encourage the parent to cooperate in this. This obligation is based on the obligation of the national authorities, including the judge, arising from Article 8 of the ECHR to make every effort to ensure the right to family life between parents and their childrenpossible (cf. ECtHR 17 April 2012, case 805/09). An active attitude may be required of the judge all the more if the refusal of the parent charged with custody is based on fewer - or even none - good and sufficiently plausible grounds (HR 17 January 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 91 ).


4.5
At the hearing the court discussed the possibility of forensic mediation with the parents . The father was prepared to do this, even if the court of law would attach the strict condition that he should in no way contact the mother and / or the minor in the intervening time , not even through third parties. The mother has indicated that she is unable to take part in a forensic mediation process with the father because this causes too much tension and stress for her . Her mental state has not yet recovered sufficiently from the recent events that took place between her and thefather have occurred. The Court of Appeal, as will also become apparent below, has no reason to doubt this and considers it to be in the interests of the minor that clarity about the access arrangements will now be made . The court will therefore now make a final decision.


4.6
In its report of 1 March 2019, the Council advised to reject the father 's request for the adoption of an access arrangement . At the moment, the Council considers that interaction is too early and not in the interests of the minor . The Board has taken the following into account, among other things. From 2014 to the present, a vicious circle has arisen in which the parents have completely lost each other. During that period, the father had a changing, unpredictable attitude and a lack of self-insight and reflective capacity. The fatherhas sought help and made clear progress following his conviction for assault, but there are still gaps regarding self-reflection and especially the interaction with the minor and the mother . When the father cannot see what his behavior is calling on the minor and the mother , a repeat of moves is to be expected in (supervised) intercourse in the sense that the father does things (for example, contacting unannounced people and coming to the door), that cause tension and stress in the mother and the minor cause. In addition, the mother is convinced that interaction is not in the interests of the minor , because the much needed rest will once again be seriously disturbed by the relationship . the minor is also clear that she really does not want to see the father . According to the council , intercourse will again fail under these circumstances , which would again mean a huge loss of safety for the minor .


4.7
The court of appeal , like the council and the court, is of the opinion that the father 's request for the adoption of a visitation arrangement must be rejected and considers this as follows.


4.8
the minor is a 10-year-old girl, who has been exposed for more than five years to a struggle between parents about access arrangements . She has experienced various incidents between the father and the mother in which the father has shown considerable cross-border behavior and as a result of which she has suffered trauma. After the six interaction moments supervised by D in 2014, the minor had no more contact with her father .

The mother was unable to work for several years due to the father 's behavior . She is still recovering from a burnout and has recently started working again.


4.9
By order of 13 January 2016, the court rejected the father 's request for the adoption of a visitation arrangement , considering among other things the following: The parents were given the opportunity, with the help of agencies, to discuss conversation and counseling with each other handling to boot. Instead of the parents getting closer to each other, the problems and dynamics are between the parentsjust got bigger and bigger. This spiral must be broken and the court saw only one solution for this, namely that at that moment there is no longer worked towards (guided) interaction . The peace that this creates is not only in the interests of the minor , but also in the interest of the parents: the father can work on herself and the mother can recover from her burnout, which is also in the best interests of the minor is.


4.10
The Court of Appeal finds that the father has taken steps by seeking help. He has gained more insight and control over his emotional and emotional world and his world of thought. However, the Court agrees with the opinion of the Court and the conclusion of the council namely that the father still little introspection shows and provides insufficient evidence of understanding the consequences of his behavior and the degree of impact of his behavior on the minor and the mother .

Although more than three years have passed since the aforementioned order of the court, the court finds that the rest that the mother has had is very relative in view of all the moments that she belongs to the father 's network either through the father or through third parties is (constantly) confronted with issues that relate to the interaction between the father and the minor . For example, criminal proceedings took place in August 2016 - in which the mother exercised her right to speak - which led to the conviction of thefather . The minor also received tickets at the end of 2016 and several times in 2017, directly or indirectly from the father , with an incriminating text. In addition, the mother of the father has contacted the mother several times . In December 2017, the father approached the mother through his lawyer about whether she is willing to lend her assistance to a process led by the area team concerning supervised intercourse between the father and the minor . After the motherhad indicated that she was not prepared to do so, the father submitted the present application in January 2018 and the mother was still approached by the area team to which the father had turned. Also recently the father has sent several cards and photos to the minor or wants to hand them over to the mother at her home . Insofar as the father has stated that the council had advised this in his report and he did not consider it to be in the best interests of the minor to await the decision of the court, the court considers that the fatherthis anticipated the decision of the court. The council advised the court and it was not yet certain whether the court would follow this advice. In addition, the council had explicitly advised not to hand in the tickets at the door and not too often (once every quarter) and, moreover, to have the card exchange go through a counselor from the area team or the lawyer or grandmother. With regard to the father 's assertion that his counselor was on vacation, the court notes that it would have been reasonable to await his vacation and then consult him. The father is not in the interest of the acted as a minor and, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, has shown that he still has insufficient insight into the impact that his behavior has and has had on the minor and the mother .


4.11
In view of what the mother has experienced in recent years as a result of the behavior of the father , she has still not had enough rest to regain her carrying capacity and carrying capacity. It has become clear to the court that the behavior of the father has a major impact on the mother and that she is at the limits of her capacity , which is understandable in view of what has happened. This while the minor is dependent on the mother as a caring parent and she has indicated to the council that she is afraid that she will be her motherlost. The limited capacity of the mother together with the gaps in insight and the self-reflection of the father therefore does not allow her to be confronted with the father in the coming period . The Court of Appeal considers it of great importance that the mother and the minor first get sufficient time and rest to recover from what they have experienced in recent years and can complete the (trauma) therapies used for this with positive results.


4.12
Insofar as the mother stated that when the minor shows dealing with the father to want, they do not will stop, the court rejects the mother that she is nurturing parent herein has an active role and should not wait until the minor association wants . The Board has declared about it at the hearing, and the court shares this view, it is too late if you as parents wait to participate in intercourse until your child asks if he / she is dealing may have with the other parent. Waiting for this or waiting until the minor is of age does not solve the problem of healthy identity development and is therefore not in the best interests of the minor . The development of a child continues and the parent has a duty to follow the development of the child independently of his / her own situation . The Court of Appeal therefore assumes that the mother will make every effort to ensure that - in the interests of the minor - her capacity and capacity are back in balance as soon as possible. The court appoints the fatherin that regard, that this balance is achieved more quickly if he gives the mother and the minor the full scope for this, which means that he (directly or indirectly) must in no way contact the minor and the mother .


4.13
In view of the above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that under the current circumstances there are grounds for refusal under a, b and d of Article 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code.


5 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision, to the extent that it is subject to its judgment.


6 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the Northern Netherlands court, Leeuwarden location, of 1 August 2018, to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court.

This decision was made by mrs. MP den Hollander, MAF Holtvluwer-Veenstra and F. Kleefmann, assisted by Mr. HB Fortuyn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 14 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4307