Content indication
Suspension of the operation of the decision given in the first instance for substitution permission for the woman to move to Spain with the children and with regard to the care and holiday arrangements.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-09-10
Publication date
2019-09-17
Case number
200.261.608 / 02
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.261.608 / 02

Court case number: C / 13/662451 / FA RK 19/1169

decision of the multiple room of 10 September 2019

in the incidental request for suspension of the enforceability in stock

from

the man ,

residing at residence 1,

applicant,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: R. Korver in Amsterdam.

and

the woman ,

in the personal records database registered at location 1, currently residing at residence 2, country,

defendant,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: M. Nurdogan-Ferwerda in Amsterdam.

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

Amsterdam Child Protection Board

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Amsterdam District Court of 17 April 2019 pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1.
The man lodged an appeal on 27 June 2019 against the decision of the Amsterdam District Court (number). It has also sought suspension of the operation of the contested decision (200 261 608/02).


2.2.
On 19 July 2019, the woman filed a statement of defense against the request of the man on appeal and the request for suspension .


2.3.
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a journal report on the part of man of 23 August 2019 with productions 17 to 19, received on 23 August 2019;

- a journal report from 2 September 2019 on the part of the woman with appendices 3 to 9, received on 3 September 2019;

- a journal report from the man of 4 September 2019 with productions 20 to 22, received on 5 September 2019;

- a journal report of 4 September 2019 on the part of the woman with productions 10 and 11, received on 5 September 2019;

- a journal report of 5 September 2019 from the side of the woman with an attachment, received on 5 September 2019.


2.4.
The oral hearing took place on 5 September 2019. Appeared are:

- the man, assisted by his lawyer;

- the woman, assisted by her lawyer and Mrs. I. Huigens, English interpreter;

- the council , represented by Mrs. X.

The parties submitted pleading notes at the hearing.


3 The facts
The parties had an affective relationship with each other and they lived together from 2008 to 2016. The following were born during this relationship:

- minor 1, born on date of birth 2011 in location 2 (hereafter: child A);

- minor 2, born on date of birth 2014 in place 1 (hereafter: child B).

Parties exercise joint authority . After termination of their relationship , the parties have agreed on a care arrangement whereby the children spend two days with the husband, two days with the wife and three days with the husband and the following week with the wife for two days, two days with the husband and being with the woman for three days.


4 The request

4.1.
In the contested decision, at the request of the wife, the wife was granted substitute permission to move to Spain with child A and child B. In addition, a care and holiday arrangement has been established between the man and the children . The contested decision was declared enforceable.


4.2.
The husband requests that, for the duration of the appeal proceedings, the operation of the contested decision be suspended with regard to the substitution permission granted to the wife to move to Spain with the children and with regard to the care and vacation arrangements established.


4.3.
The woman has put up a defense against this.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1.
The next item is the request of the husband suspension recommended by the enforceability of the contested decision.


5.2.
In summary, the man suggests the following to substantiate his request for suspension . The court has wrongly declared the decision enforceable. The children benefit most from growing up in place 1 in the familiar environment . By moving the intensive will care arrangements , such as the man who is now with the children has to be broken. The consequences of moving for the children are drastic and irreversible. The opinion of the children is of great importance. The opinion of the children is not included in the judgment. Inchild abduction cases , children are heard from the age of 6. The children benefit from rest and regularity in the sense that they can continue their familiar life in place 1 during the legal proceedings . According to the man, there has been a legal error. With regard to the justification for the enforceability of a stock declaration, the court has stepped outside the legal battle by taking an advance on a possible appeal. There is no evidence of why the children should be able to start at a new school in a new place of residence. The interests of the children are opposed to moving to Spain.Relocation will mean that the contact between the man and the children is drastically limited. At the hearing on appeal, the husband argued that the woman is already obstructing contact with the children . The children are under the holiday scheme in August 2019 four weeks the man spent. After the children had returned , the woman blocked the call contacts between the man and the children . She also failed to honor the commitment of the woman to take on the costs of international care. The man has tickets for him and the children at his own expense must purchase for the vacation from him in August 2019. It is in the interest of the children that the number of removals and changes of school are limited as much as possible. Unnecessary removals and changes of school are harmful to the children . In anticipation of the main appeal, the children must therefore stay in place 1 in the familiar environment and go to school there. The psychological need for the woman to go to Spain to move , according to the man (no longer) available.


5.3.
The woman has argued that the children are five and seven years old. There is no question of a legal and / or treaty obligation to hear the children . For that reason alone, there is no question of a legal error. In addition, the interests of the children have been carefully weighed by the court of first instance. It is in the interest of the children that they can enter Spain at the beginning of the school year and that before that time they can get used to their new situation in place of residence 2. The interests of the children must prevail over the alleged interest of the man in the proceedings. At the hearing on appeal the woman argued that there was peace and clarity for thechildren must come. The man tried to influence the children negatively after the verdict . Not only has he repeatedly pronounced the disadvantages of moving to residence 2 towards the children , but he has also hindered contact between the children and the woman , which is extremely burdensome for the children . The children are brought into a loyalty conflict by the attitude of the man . If the request of the man assigned the wife's new job in Spain forced to give back to move into first place. The children will then have to switch again and face a period of uncertainty.


5.4.
At the hearing on appeal, the Council stated that there was a worrying situation. Parties are not aligned, and there are signs that the children through the preparation and conduct of the parents in a loyalty conflict threaten to hit. The contact arrangement has not been going well since the summer. It is in the interest of the children that clarity comes as soon as possible. Without talking to the parents and having a picture of the family, it is difficult for the council to advise the court.


5.5.
The court considers as follows.

The higher appeal suspends the operation of a decision, unless this decision has been declared enforceable. Pursuant to the second sentence of Article 360 ​​(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv), the higher court can still suspend the operation if an appeal has been lodged against a decision that has been declared enforceable.

According to settled case law, the suspension of the operation of the contested decision may be ordered if enforcement constitutes an abuse of enforcement powers. Such an abuse occurs if the executor (here: the wife), also having regard to the interests of the executed (here: the husband), and, since this is a matter of minors , the interests of the children, has no reasonable interest in the use of the power to proceed with enforcement pending the judgment on appeal. This can be the case if the contested decision is apparently based on a legal or factual error, or if there is apparently a state of emergency on the part of the executed or the children on the basis of facts that occurred or came to light after the contested decision. The assessment of the application for suspension should as a rule not take account of the chance of the appeal being successful (HR 22 April 1983, NJ 1983/145).


5.6.
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there is no question of a legal or factual error. The court of first instance was free not to hear the children who are 7 and 5 years old, in view of the provisions of Article 809 (1), second sentence, of the Code of Civil Procedure. Since this is not a child abduction case (after all, the woman had the right to leave for Spain pending the appeal), the comparison with that procedure does not hold. The court was also free to declare the contested decision (reasoned) enforceable, since, in view of the provisions of Article 288 DCCP, the court can do so on request but also ex officio.

On the other hand, the Court of Appeal considers the interests of women in the implementation of the contested decision, weighed against the interests of the children , of secondary importance. The documents submitted and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal, among other things, have shown the following. After the contested decision, the woman left for Spain in mid-June 2019 to start her new job there. The parties agreed that the children should complete their school year in the Netherlands. The children then went to the woman in Spain after the start of the summer holiday on July 12, 2019. In accordance with the care scheme established by the contested decision , the children havestayed with the husband for four weeks in August and they returned to Spain with the wife on 31 August 2019. The last week of the four-week vacation with the man, the children went to the 'old' school at location 1, where the children are still enrolled. It appears that, after the contested decision, both parties are mutually accusing each other that the other impedes contact between the children and the other parent and does not act in the best interests of the children . For example, the woman blames the man for burdening the children with negative statements about the move , for trying the childrenand that he disqualifies the woman as a mother , which, according to the woman, is evidenced, inter alia, by the witness statements of au pairs put at issue by the man. Also, the transfer of the children on Saturday, August 31, 2019 went stressful because the woman was only allowed to come and get the children from the man shortly before the flight to Spain. The man blames the woman for not acting in the best interests of the children and putting her own interest in settling in Spain first. In addition, according to the man, the care scheme established by the contested decision is already difficult at the hands of the woman. After the departure of thechildren on 31 August 2019 to Spain, the man had three telephone contact with the children , which contact was difficult because the connection was terminated or the conversation was terminated. Furthermore, the woman has the cost of care arrangements they would undertake not paid and the man himself must bear the cost of the return tickets for travel in August 2019 on his behalf.

In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the discussions between the parties about the implementation of the care and vacation scheme established by the contested decision and the problems with the implementation of the scheme are new facts, so that apparently on the part of the children a state of emergency. After all, the current position of the parties threatens to put the children in a serious loyalty conflict , which is harmful to both children . According to what the parties have argued, the parents are unable to leave the children out of their struggle and the children becomefaced with the disagreement between the parties about (among other things) the implementation of the contested decision. All this is all the more burdensome if the children are confronted with a new environment , new school and a different language. In addition, the court takes into account that at the time of the appeal hearing the school in Spain has not yet started because of the summer holidays in Spain and the children are staying with the woman in the family's holiday residence until the start of the school on 12 September 2019 , so that normal life in Spain has not yet begun and they have already been to school in the Netherlands for a week. The childrencan easily resume their known life upon their return to the Netherlands. From that moment on, pending the appeal proceedings, the old access arrangement applicable between the parties can be resumed, now that the woman has indicated that if the court of appeal suspends the operation of the contested decision, she will return to the house with her children instead of 1 . If the court in the main proceedings decides in favor of the woman, the children can enter the school in Spain at another time. The court recognizes that it is not in the interests of women if, as she states, she will lose her job in Spain if she must return to the Netherlands, but by knowingly with the childrento leave pending the appeal proceedings, in the opinion of the court of appeal, this is for its account and risk and does not outweigh its interest against the interests of the children described above in the (provisional) continuation of their known living situation. In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal considers it necessary to suspend the operation of the contested decision.


5.7.
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

grants the man's request;

suspends the operation of the decision of the Amsterdam District Court of 17 April 2019 insofar as it relates to the replacement permission granted to the woman to move to Spain with the children and the established care and holiday arrangement.

This decision was made by J. Jonkers, LL.M., CMJ Peters, and WK van Duren, LL.M., assisted by I. Rijs, LL.M.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3371