Content indication
Over a considerable number of years, the suspect has been guilty of fornication with seven (minor) girls, all in the proven manner. These girls are his own daughter, two stepdaughters , the daughter of his uncle, a niece, a neighbor and the daughter of friends. The court sentenced the suspect to imprisonment for a period of 48 months, of which 8 months conditionally with a probationary period of 5 years.
Instance
Court of The Hague
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-05
Publication date
2019-05-03
Case number
22-003068-18
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
Role number: 22-003068-18

Parquet number: 10-811144-17

Date of judgment: April 5, 2019

Contradiction

Court of The Hague
multiple chamber for criminal cases

Judgment
noted the appeal against the judgment of the Rotterdam District Court of 12 July 2018 in the criminal case against the suspect:

suspect ,
born in place of birth on year of birth 1971,

living at address,

currently detained in the PI PI.

Investigation of the case

This judgment was delivered on the basis of the investigation at the hearing at first instance and the investigation at the hearing on appeal of this court on 22 March 2019.

The Court of Appeal has taken note of the advocate general's claim and of what has been put forward by and on behalf of the accused.

Process

In the first instance, the suspect was acquitted of the accused under 2, first alternative / cumulative and sentenced to imprisonment under 1, 2, second alternative / cumulative, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 for a period of forty-two months, with deduction of detention, of which twelve months conditionally with a probationary period of three years and with the special conditions specified in more detail in the judgment, ordering that the special conditions and the supervision referred to therein be immediately enforceable. Furthermore, a decision was made on the claims of the injured parties and compensation measures were imposed as specified in the judgment.

The public prosecutor lodged an appeal against the judgment.

Indictment

The defendant has been charged - after changing the indictment at the hearing in first instance - that:

1:

he, at one or more times during the period from 01 April 2002 to 30 April 2002 in Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, with a victim, who had reached the age of twelve years but not yet that of sixteen years, has at least once, apart from real, committed one or more abusive act (s), which consisted of or also consisted of sexually invading the body of that victim, having the suspect:

- (several times), suspects, finger / s brought into / against the vagina of that victim / pushed and / or

- touches / touches the victim 's breasts and / or vagina (several times) ;

and / or

he, at one or more time (s) in the period from January 1, 2003 to January 31, 2004 in Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, at least in the Netherlands, with victim, who was twelve years old but not yet sixteen years old has attained several times, at least once, in real life, (each time) one or more abusive act (s) that consisted (or) consisted of or co-existed of sexually invading the body of that victim, having the accused: - (several times), suspects, finger / s brought into / against the vagina of that victim / pushed and / or

- touches / touches the victim 's breasts and / or vagina (several times) ;

and / or

he, at one or more time (s) in the period from December 1, 2005 to January 31, 2006 in Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, at least in the Netherlands, several times, at least once, by force or (a) other factual (i) d and / or threats of violence or (a) other fact (s), a minor entrusted to his care and / or vigilance , namely a victim (born in 1989), has been forced to commit and / or tolerate one or more lewd act (s), (each time) consisting of:

- (unexpectedly) bringing / pushing his, suspects, finger (s) into / against the vagina of that victim and / or

- (unexpectedly) touching / touching the breasts and / or vagina of that victim, such that there was a (large) age difference between him, suspect, and that victim and / or he, suspect, is the uncle of that victim and / or (as a result of) there was a psychological and / or physical and / or mental superiority (arising from suspect age) ;

2:

he, at one or more time (s) in the period 03 October 1997 up to and including 02 October 1998 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk, at least in the Netherlands, with a child he cares for or raises as belonging to his family and / or a his / her care and / or vigilance entrusted to a minor , namely victim 2 (born in 1986) who had not yet reached the age of twelve, (each time) committed one or more act (s) that consisted of consisted of the sexual penetration of the body of that victim 2, having the suspect,

- (repeatedly) suspects, finger (s) pushed / brought into / against the vagina of that victim 2 and / or

- (repeatedly) touches / touches the vagina of that victim 2 and / or

- to be subtracted by that victim 2 and / or who are victims 2, to have the suspect, penis and / or exposed body massaged;

and / or

he, at one or more time (s) in the period 02 October 1998 up to and including 31 December 2001 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk, and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, at least in the Netherlands, with a child he cares for or raises as belonging to his family and / or a minor entrusted to his care and / or vigilance , namely victim 2, who had reached the age of twelve years but not yet that of sixteen, apart from real, (each time) one or more lewd act (s) has committed, which consisted of or also consisted of sexually invading the body of that victim 2, having the suspect,

- (repeatedly) suspects, finger (s) pushed / brought into / against the vagina of that victim 2 and / or

- (repeatedly) touches / touches the vagina of that victim 2 and / or

- to be subtracted by that victim 2 and / or who are victims 2, to have the suspect, penis and / or exposed body massaged;

3:
he, at one or more times during the period from 21 January 2013 to 20 January 2016 in Waarder, municipality of Bodegraven-Reeuwijk, with his child and / or a minor entrusted to his care and / or vigilance , namely victim 3 (born in 2000), who had reached the age of twelve years but not yet that of sixteen years, outside of real, (each time) committed one or more abusive act (s) that consisted of or co-existed (s) from the sexual penetration of the body of that victim 3, having the suspect:

- (several times) suspects, finger (s) brought / pushed into / against the vagina of that victim 3 and / or

- touches (repeatedly) the (bare) breasts and / or the (bare) vagina and / or the (bare) buttocks of that victim 3;

4:
he has committed sexual abuse at one or more times during the period from 12 March 2000 to 12 March 2010 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, with his minor stepdaughter victim 4, born on birth year 1992 , consisting of that fornication that he,

- (several times) has taken off the (diaper) pants of that victim 4 and / or put them down and / or (subsequently) touched the (bare) vagina of that victim 4 (while lying in bed) and / or

- (more than once) about the (night) clothing on the victim's vagina 4 (while lying in bed) and / or

- (repeatedly) touched the buttocks and / or chest (s) of that victim 4;

5:
he has committed sexual abuse at one or more times during the period from 27 March 2000 to 31 December 2001 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, with his minor foster child and / or and / or vigilance entrusted to a minor , namely victim 5, born on year of birth 1986, who fornicates that he,

- opened the victim's pajamas 5 (while lying in bed) and / or

- (subsequently) touched the (bare) breasts of that victim 5 and / or

- has touched (repeatedly) the buttocks and / or breasts of that victim 5;

6:
he, at one or more time (s) in the period from 21 March 2009 up to and including 20 March 2011 in Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, and / or Ridderkerk with victim 6, born on birth year 1995, who was then still sixteen years old did not achieve, outside of real, one or more abusive act (s), consisting of (repeatedly) touching the bare chest (s) and / or the buttocks of that victim 6;

and / or

he, at one or more time (s) in the period from March 21, 2009 up to and including March 20, 2011 in Ridderkerk and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, by force or (other) facts and / or or threat of violence or (a) other fact (s) victim 6 (several times) has forced to commit and / or tolerate one or more abusive act (s), consisting of (each time) attacking the bare chest (s) and / or groping the breasts of that victim 6 over clothing and / or groping the buttocks of that victim 6 over clothing and consisting of violence or other factual (i) d ( and) and / or that threat of violence or that other fact (s) (each time)

- the (partly due to age (physical and / or mental) prevalence that he, the suspect, had over that victim 6 and / or

- firmly grasping and / or biting and / or (subsequently) laying on the floor of that victim 6 and / or (subsequently) with his hand (s) in the shirt and bra of that victim 6 and grabbing her bare chest to grab and / or

- (repeatedly) approaching victim 6 from behind and / or (subsequently) grabbing victim 6 unexpectedly / suddenly (over clothing) by the chest (s);

7:
he, at one or more time (s) in the period from 23 April 1994 to 22 April 1999 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk, with victim 7, born in 1983, who had not yet reached the age of sixteen at the time, has actually committed one or more abusive act (s), consisting of (repeatedly) touching the breast (s) of that victim 7 and / or having the victim 7 touched on his naked body and / or penis;

and / or

he, at one or more time (s) in the period from 23 April 1999 up to and including 22 April 2001 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk, and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, by force or (a) other factual (i) d ( and) and / or the threat of violence or (a) other factual (s) victim 7 forced him to commit and / or tolerate one or more abusive act (s) consisting of squeezing and / or groping the breasts of that victim 7 and consisting of violence or the other fact (s) of:

- partly due to (physical and / or mental) dominance arising from age difference that he, suspect, had over that victim 7 and / or

- (several times) (from behind) approaching that victim 7 and / or (subsequently) grabbing the victim's breast (s) 7 unexpectedly, or at least suddenly.

Claim of the Advocate General

The Advocate General has requested that the judgment whose appeal will be confirmed except for the sentence imposed in that judgment and that the accused for the alternative / cumulative under 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 charged will be sentenced to imprisonment for forty-eight months with deduction of pre-trial detention, of which eight months conditionally with a probationary period of three years and with the special conditions in accordance with the judgment of the court. Furthermore, the Advocate General has demanded the enforceability of those special conditions.

The judgment whose appeal

The judgment whose appeal cannot be upheld because the court does not agree with it.

Acquittal

The court agrees with the court that it has not been legally and convincingly proven what the accused under 2, first alternative / cumulative, has been charged, so that the accused - according to the advocate general's claim - should be acquitted .

Proof of declaration

The Court of Appeal considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the accused committed the charges under 1, 2, second alternative / cumulative, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, on the understanding that:

1:

a. he , at one or more time (s) in the period from 1 April 2002 to 30 April 2002 in Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, with victim, who had reached the age of twelve years but not yet that of sixteen years, repeatedly, at least once, out of wedlock, (each) one or more lewd act ( and ) committed, which consisted (and) whether there was also ( and ) from the sexual penetration of the body of the victim, having accused:

- ( several times ) are, suspects, finger ( s ) put into / against the vagina of said victim / pushed and / or

- ( more than once ) the breasts and / or the vagina of those

touched / touched victim;

and / or

b. he , at one or more time (s) in the period from

January 1, 2003 to January 31, 2004 in Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, at least in the Netherlands, with victim, who had reached the age of twelve years but not yet that of sixteen years, several times, at least once, outside real life, (each time) a or lewd act ( and ) committed, which consisted (and) whether co-existed ( and ) from the sexual penetration of the body of the victim, having accused: - ( repeatedly ) are suspects, finger ( s )inserted / pushed into / against the vagina of that victim and / or

- ( more than once ) the breasts and / or the vagina of those

touched / touched victim;

and / or

c. he, at one or more time (s) in the period from

December 1, 2005 until January 31, 2006 to Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, at least, in the Netherlands several times, at least once, by violence or ( an ) other feitelijkhe ( i ), d (s) and / or threat of violence or (an) other fact (s) , a minor entrusted to his care and / or vigilance , namely

victim (born birth year 1989), forced to commit and / or suffer from one or more lewd act ( and ) , (each) consisting of:

- (unexpectedly) bringing / pushing his, suspects, finger (s) into / against the vagina of that victim and / or

- (unexpectedly) touching / touching the breasts and / or vagina of that victim , such that there was a (large) age difference between him, suspect, and that victim and / or he, suspect, is the uncle of that victim and / or (as a result of) there was a psychological and / or physical and / or mental superiority (arising from suspect age) ;

2

he, at one or more time (s) in the period 03 October 1997 up to and including 02 October 1998 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk, at least in the Netherlands, with a child he cares for or raises as belonging to his family and / or a his / her care and / or vigilance entrusted to a minor , namely victim 2 (born in 1986) who had not yet reached the age of twelve, (each time) committed one or more act (s) that consisted of consisted of the sexual penetration of the body of that victim 2, having the suspect,

- (repeatedly) suspects, finger (s) pushed / brought into / against the vagina of that victim 2 and / or

- (repeatedly) touched / touched the vagina of that victim 2 and / or

- to be subtracted by that victim 2 and / or who are victims 2, to have the suspect, penis and / or exposed body massaged;

and / or

he , at one or more time (s) in the period from October 2, 1998 to December 31, 2001 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk, and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, at least in the Netherlands, with a child that he or she cares for or educates as belonging to his family and / or a minor entrusted to his care and / or vigilance , namely victim 2, who had reached the age of twelve years but not yet that of sixteen, apart from real, (each time) one or more lewd act ( and ) has committed, which consisted (and) whether there was also ( and )from the sexual penetration of the body of that victim 2, having the suspect,

- ( repeatedly ) suspects, finger ( s ) pushed / brought into / against the vagina of that victim 2 and / or

- (repeatedly) touched / touched the vagina of that victim 2 and / or

- to be pulled off by victim 2 and / or who are victim 2 , to have the suspect, penis and / or exposed body massaged;

3:
He , at one or more time (s) during the period from January 21, 2013 to January 20, 2016 to Waarder, municipality Bodegraven-Reeuwijk, with his child and / or his care and / or supervision toeve r married minors , namely victim 3 (born birth year 2000), which the age of twelve years but have not reached sixteen years, out of wedlock, (each) one or more lewd act ( and ) committed, which consisted (and) whether also consisted of the sexual penetration of the body of that victim 3, having the accused:

- (several times), suspects, finger / s have been pushed / pushed into / against the vagina of that victim 3 and / or

- touches ( repeatedly ) the (bare) breasts and / or the (bare) vagina and / or the (bare) buttocks of that victim 3;

4:
he has committed sexual abuse at one or more times during the period from 12 March 2000 to 12 March 2010 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, with his minor stepdaughter victim 4, born on birth year 1992 , consisting of that fornication that he,

- ( several times ) has taken off the (diaper) pants of that victim 4 and / or put them down and / or ( subsequently ) touched the (bare) vagina of that victim 4 ( while lying in bed ) and / or

- ( more than once ) over the ( night ) clothing on the victim's vagina 4 ( while lying in bed ) and / or

- ( several times ) the buttocks and / or chest ( s ) of those

has touched victim 4;
5:
he has committed sexual abuse at one or more times during the period from 27 March 2000 to 31 December 2001 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, with his minor foster child and / or and / or vigilance entrusted to a minor , namely victim 5, born on year of birth 1986, who fornicates that he,

- opened the victim's pajamas 5 ( while lying in bed ) and / or

- ( subsequently ) touched the ( bare ) breasts of that victim 5 and / or

- has touched (repeatedly) the buttocks and / or breasts of that victim 5;

6:
he , at one or more time (s) in the period from 21 March 2009 up to and including 20 March 2011 in Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, and / or Ridderkerk with victim 6, born on birth year 1995, who was then still sixteen years old did not achieve, outside of real, one or more abusive act ( s ) , consisting of (repeatedly) touching the bare chest (s) and / or the buttocks of that victim 6;

and / or

He , at one or more time (s) during the period from March 21, 2009 to March 20, 2011 Ridderkerk and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, violence and whether (a) another feitelijkhe (i), d ( and ) and / or threat of violence or (a) other factual (s) victim 6 (several times) has forced to commit and / or tolerate one or more abusive act ( s ) , consisting of (each time) groping of the bare chest (s) and / or touching the clothing over the clothingbreasts of the victim 6 and / or about the clothes back touching the buttocks of the victim 6 and existing violence and / or other feitelijkhe (i), d ( and ) and / or the threat of violence or other feitelijkhe ( i) d (s) (each time) of

- the (partly due to age (physical and / or mental) prevalence that he, the suspect, had over that victim 6 and / or

- firmly grasping and / or biting and / or ( subsequently ) laying on the floor of that victim 6 and / or ( subsequently ) with his hand ( s ) in the shirt and bra of that victim 6 and grabbing her bare chest to grab and / or

- (repeatedly) approaching victim 6 from behind and / or (subsequently) grabbing victim 6 unexpectedly / suddenly (over clothing) by the chest ( s ) ;

7:
he , at one or more time (s) in the period from 23 April 199 8 4 to 22 April 1999 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk, with victim 7, born on year of birth 1983, who at that time was not yet sixteen years old has, outside of real life, committed one or more abusive act ( s ) , consisting of ( repeatedly ) touching the breast ( s ) of that

victim 7 and / or having that victim 7 touch his naked body and / or penis;

and / or

he , at one or more time (s) in the period from 23 April 1999 up to and including 22 April 2001 in Driebruggen, municipality of Reeuwijk, and / or Waarder, municipality of Reeuwijk, by force or (a) other factual (i) d ( and ) and / or the threat of violence or (a) other factual (s) victim 7 forced him to commit and / or tolerate one or more abusive act ( s ) consisting of squeezing and / or groping the breasts of that victim 7 and existing that violence orthat other feitelijkhe (i), d ( and ) from the:

- partly due to (physical and / or mental) dominance arising from age difference that he, suspect, had over that victim 7 and / or

- ( several times ) (from behind) approaching that victim 7 and / or (subsequently) grabbing the victim 's breast ( s ) 7 unexpectedly , or at least suddenly .

What has been charged more or differently has not been proven. The suspect must be acquitted of this.

To the extent that language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, these have been improved in the statement of evidence. It appears from the proceedings at the hearing that the defendant was therefore not harmed in the defense.

Evidence

The Court of Appeal based its conviction that the suspect had committed the proven statement on the facts and circumstances contained in the evidence and that gave reason for the proven statement.

In those cases where the law requires supplementing the judgment with the means of proof or, insofar as Article 359, third paragraph, second sentence, of the Code of Criminal Procedure is applied, with a statement thereof, this will take place in a supplement that is attached as an appendix will be attached to this judgment.

Punishability of the proven

The proven proven charge under 1, 2, second alternative / cumulative, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 yields:

1 a and b: with someone who has reached the age of twelve years but not yet that of sixteen years, commit outside of real, sexual acts that consist of or partly consist of the sexual penetration of the body, committed several times
and
1c the actual assault of honor, while the guilty person commits the fact against a minor entrusted to his care and vigilance , committed several times;

2: with someone who has reached the age of twelve years but not yet that of sixteen years, commit outside of real, abusive acts that consist of or partly consist of the sexual penetration of the body, while the guilty person commits the fact against a child who he cared for and educated as belonging to his family, committed several times;

3: commit genuinely abusive acts with someone under the age of sixteen, while the guilty person commits the offense against his child , committed several times;


4 committing fornication with his minor stepchild , committed several times;

5 commit sexual abuse with his minor foster child , committed several times;
6: carry out genuinely sexual acts with someone under the age of sixteen, committed more than once

and
actual assault of honor, committed several times;
7: commit genuinely sexual acts with someone under the age of sixteen, committed more than once

and
actual assault of honor, committed several times.
Punishability of the suspect

No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the suspect's punishability. The suspect is therefore punishable.

Punishment justification

The Court of Appeal determined the punishment to be imposed on the basis of the seriousness of the facts and the circumstances in which they were committed and on the basis of the person and the personal circumstances of the suspect, as evidenced by the investigation at the hearing.

The Court of Appeal in particular has taken the following into account.

Over a considerable number of years, the suspect has been guilty of fornication with seven (minor) girls, all in the proven manner. These girls are his own daughter, two stepdaughters , the daughter of his uncle, a niece, a neighbor and the daughter of friends.

By acting in this way, the suspect has always seriously violated the physical and psychological integrity of the young victims. The suspect has made the physical and psychological well-being of the victims subordinate to the satisfaction of his own sexual needs and thereby also made a serious violation of the undisturbed (sexual) development of all these victims. Young victims of sexual abuse usually experience the (psychological) consequences of what has been done to them for quite some time.

It is clear from the file and from the various victim statements how serious the psychological consequences have been and still are for them. It also shows the extent to which the victims have struggled with loyalty to the suspect and his family on the one hand and to make the sexual abuse public on the other.

The court of appeal seriously charges the suspect with these facts .

To the detriment of the suspect, the Court of Appeal observed an extract of the Judicial Documentation concerning the suspect dated March 4, 2019, which shows that the suspect was irrevocably convicted on 30 March 2001 for committing a similar offense.

That apparently did not prevent him from committing similar facts again afterwards.

Reports regarding the suspect

The Court of Appeal took into account the following reports regarding the person of the suspect:

- a report from the probation service in the Netherlands, dated 24 January 2018. This report includes - where relevant - the following:

The suspect already had professional help before his arrest because of cross-border behavior. From 2014 to 2016, he voluntarily followed a treatment process at De Waag. The closing letter shows that work has been done on problems that underlie sexual cross-border behavior. It has not become clear which specific cross-border behavior was dealt with at De Waag. Furthermore, the suspect reports direct physical contact with minors to be avoided. He experiences regret, conscience and recognizes that his behavior has led to harmful consequences for the victims.

The probation officer asks whether these risk-limiting factors are sufficient and whether risky behavior is thereby excluded. He describes his cross-border behavior as an extreme form of amicality, while a more serious behavioral pattern is described by the victims and the witnesses . Contact with his family sees the probation service as a risk because of potential victims. All in all, risky behavior cannot be excluded. A surveillance aimed at further risk assessment, monitoring risks and

application of protection measures is advised. A re-registration with De Waag is necessary to assess whether there are leads for additional treatment. In the case of a conviction, the probation service therefore recommends a (partially) conditional punishment with, among other things, the special conditions: obligation to report after probation and outpatient treatment.

- Pro Justitia reports dated December 19, 2017 and March 5, 2018, prepared and signed by Dr. RAR Bullens, (NRGD registered) clinical psychologist . These reports include - as far as relevant - the following:

The suspect is concerned with a narcissistic personality disorder, a voyeurism disorder, and another specified paraphile disorder (ie, non-exclusive hebephile disorder). At the time of the charge, there was a similar picture, with the 'other specified paraphilic disorder' (ie non-exclusive type of non-exclusive type of disorder) being more prominent in the foreground. This influenced the behavioral choices and behaviors at the time of the charge.

On the basis of the foregoing, it is advised to consider the suspect to be attributable to a lesser extent for proven facts. The suspect has received long-term treatment at De Waag and has completed his treatment positively.

Although there is no treatment indication, consideration can be given to allowing the person concerned to benefit from a (longer-term) probation supervision (in the form of a 'reporting obligation').

The probation service can 'monitor' the suspect and assist him in assessing risk situations.

Now that the conclusion of the psychologist with regard to imputability is supported by his findings and by what has also appeared at the hearing on appeal, the court adopts those conclusions with regard to the charges and makes them his own. The suspect is therefore deemed to be accountable to a lesser extent.

All things considered, the Court of Appeal, together with the Advocate General, is of the opinion that a partially unconditional prison sentence of a specified duration constitutes an appropriate and offered response. The court will attach special conditions to the conditional part of the prison sentence to be imposed after reporting.

Given the nature and seriousness of the offenses, the fact that these offenses were committed in the very long period from 1998 to 2016, the fact that the suspect had previously been convicted of a sexual offense and there is still a need today of guidance or treatment, in the opinion of the court of appeal it must be seriously taken into account that the suspect will again commit a crime that is directed against or causes danger to the inviolability of the body of one or more persons. That is why the special conditions to be imposed, including probation supervision, will include a reporting obligation for probation and a

outpatient treatment obligation immediately enforceable

be explained. Furthermore, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, based on the above, the probationary period in the present case can be a maximum of ten years.

Claims for compensation

1. In the present criminal proceedings, victim 2 has joined as an injured party and has submitted a claim for compensation for the non-material damage suffered as a result of the charges against the accused under 2, up to an amount of

€ 20,000.00.

On appeal, this claim is relevant up to the amount of € 20,000 claimed in first instance and maintained on appeal.

The Advocate General has concluded that the claim of the injured party should be granted, with the compensation measure being imposed.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has become sufficiently plausible that immaterial damage has been suffered and that this damage is the direct result of the proven alternative under 2, second alternative / cumulative. The claim for non-material damage suffered lends itself - according to standards of fairness - for allocation up to the amount claimed, plus the statutory interest demanded on this amount from 1 January 2000 up to the date of full payment.

This means that the accused must be ordered to pay the costs incurred by the injured party in connection with the claim up to this judgment, which costs the court of appeal currently estimates at nil, and the costs incurred by the injured party for the benefit of the accused. implementation of this judgment.

Payment to the State for the benefit of the victim 2

Now it is certain that the suspect up to an amount of

€ 20,000.00 is liable for the damage caused by the proven statement, the court will impose on the suspect the obligation to pay that amount to the State on behalf of the victim victim 2.

2. In the present criminal proceedings, victim 3 has joined as an injured party and filed a claim for compensation for the non-material damage suffered as a result of the charges against the accused under 3, up to an amount of € 20,000.00.

On appeal, this claim is relevant up to the amount of € 20,000 claimed in first instance and maintained on appeal.

The Advocate General has concluded that the claim of the injured party should be granted, with the compensation measure being imposed.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has become sufficiently plausible that immaterial damage has been suffered and that this damage is the direct result of the evidence stated under 3. The claim for the non-material damage suffered lends itself - according to the standards of fairness - for allocation up to the amount claimed, plus the statutory interest demanded on this amount from 1 January 2014 up to the day of full payment.

This means that the accused must be ordered to pay the costs incurred by the injured party in connection with the claim up to this judgment, which costs the court of appeal currently estimates at nil, and the costs incurred by the injured party for the benefit of the accused. implementation of this judgment.

Payment to the State for the benefit of the victim 3

Now that it has been established that up to an amount of € 20,000.00 the suspect is liable for the damage caused by what has been proven, the court will impose on the suspect the obligation to pay that amount to the State on behalf of the victim victim 3.

3. In the present criminal proceedings, victim 4 joined as an injured party and filed a claim for compensation for the non-material damage suffered as a result of the charges against the accused under 4, up to an amount of € 20,000.00.

On appeal, this claim is relevant up to the amount of € 20,000 claimed in first instance and maintained on appeal.

The Advocate General has concluded that the claim of the injured party should be granted, with the compensation measure being imposed.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has become sufficiently plausible that immaterial damage has been suffered and that this damage is the direct result of the evidence stated under 4. The claim for immaterial damage suffered lends itself - according to the standards of fairness - for allocation up to the amount claimed, plus the statutory interest demanded on this amount from 1 January 2005 up to the date of full payment.

This means that the accused must be ordered to pay the costs incurred by the injured party in connection with the claim up to this judgment, which costs the court of appeal currently estimates at nil, and the costs incurred by the injured party for the benefit of the accused. implementation of this judgment.

Payment to the State for the benefit of the victim 4

Now that it has been established that up to an amount of € 20,000.00 the suspect is liable for the damage caused by what has been proven, the court will impose on the suspect the obligation to pay that amount to the State on behalf of the victim victim 4.

4. In the present criminal proceedings, victim 6 has joined as an injured party and filed a claim for compensation for the non-material damage suffered as a result of the charges against the accused under 6, up to an amount of € 10,000.00.

On appeal, this claim is relevant up to the amount of € 10,000 claimed in first instance and maintained on appeal.

The Advocate General has concluded that the claim of the injured party should be granted, with the compensation measure being imposed.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has become sufficiently plausible that immaterial damage has been suffered and that this damage is the direct result of the evidence stated under 6. The claim for the non-material damage suffered lends itself - according to the standards of fairness - for allocation up to the amount claimed, plus the statutory interest demanded on this amount from 1 January 2010 up to the day of full payment.

This means that the accused must be ordered to pay the costs incurred by the injured party in connection with the claim up to this judgment, which costs the court of appeal currently estimates at nil, and the costs incurred by the injured party for the benefit of the accused. implementation of this judgment.

Payment to the State for the benefit of the victim 6

Now that it has been established that the suspect is liable for an amount of € 10,000.00 for the damage caused by the proven statement, the court will impose on the suspect the obligation to pay that amount to the State on behalf of the victim victim 6.

5. In the present criminal proceedings, victim 7 joined as an injured party and filed a claim for compensation for the non-material damage suffered as a result of the charges against the suspect under 7, up to an amount of € 10,000.00.

On appeal, this claim is relevant up to the amount of € 10,000 claimed in first instance and maintained on appeal.

The Advocate General has concluded that the claim of the injured party should be granted, with the compensation measure being imposed.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has become sufficiently plausible that immaterial damage has been suffered and that this damage is the direct result of the evidence stated under 7. The claim for non-material damage suffered lends itself - according to standards of fairness - for allocation up to the amount claimed, plus the statutory interest demanded on this amount from 1 January 1999 up to the date of full payment.

This means that the accused must be ordered to pay the costs incurred by the injured party in connection with the claim up to this judgment, which costs the court of appeal currently estimates at nil, and the costs incurred by the injured party for the benefit of the accused. implementation of this judgment.

Payment to the State on behalf of the victim victim 7

Now that it has been established that up to an amount of € 10,000.00 the suspect is liable for the damage caused by the proven statement, the court will impose on the suspect the obligation to pay that amount to the State for the benefit of the victim victim 7.

Applicable legal requirements

The Court of Appeal has considered Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 14d, 14th, 36f, 57, 63, 245, 246, 247, 248 and 249 of the Criminal Code , as they apply or were legally applicable.

DECISION

The court:

Destroys the judgment that appeals and does justice again:

Explains that the suspect does not prove it
2, first cumulative , charged, and acquits the suspect of this .

Declares, as considered above, proven that the accused committed the charges under 1, first, second and third cumulative, 2, second cumulative, 3, 4, 5, 6, first and second cumulative and 7, first and second cumulative.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares the proven criminal offense, qualifies this as mentioned above and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for the duration of 48 (forty-eight) months .

Determines part of the prison sentence, large

8 (eight) months will not be enforced unless the judge later ordered otherwise because the suspect

5 (five) years guilty of a criminal offense or the suspect during the probationary period of

5 (five) years, for the purpose of establishing its identity no cooperation has granted to the taking of one or more fingerprints, or no identity document as referred to in Article 1 of the Act has made available on the identification requirement for inspection or no cooperation has been granted has not complied with probation supervision, as referred to in Article 14d, second paragraph, of the Penal Code , including cooperation with home visits, or the special conditions mentioned below.

Sets as special conditions:
- that the convicted person will report to Probation Netherlands within three working days after his detention at Bezuidenhoutseweg 179 in The Hague and that the convicted person will continue to report on agreements with Probation Netherlands for as long as and frequent Probation Netherlands considers it necessary;

- that the convicted person will cooperate in risk assessment at forensic psychiatric outpatient clinic De Waag or a similar care provider, to be determined by the probation service, and if indicated he will cooperate in treatment. The treatment lasts the entire probationary period or as much shorter as the probation service requires.

The convicted person complies with the instructions given by the care provider for the treatment.

Orders the probation service to supervise compliance with the aforementioned special conditions and to assist the convicted person on behalf of them .

Recommends that the aforementioned conditions and the probation supervision to be exercised are immediately feasible.

Claim of the injured party victim 2
Allocates the claim for compensation from the injured party victim 2 in respect of the proven alternative under 2, second alternative / cumulative, up to the amount of € 20,000.00 (twenty thousand euros) in respect of immaterial damage , plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be mentioned below until the date of payment.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

In addition, imposes on the suspect the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim named victim 2, an amount of € 20,000.00 (twenty thousand euros) for the non-material damage , in the absence of payment and redress, replace it with 135

(one hundred and thirty-five) custody days , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 1 January 2000.

Claim of the injured party victim 3
Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party victim 3 in respect of the proven proven under 3 up to the amount of € 20,000.00 (twenty thousand euros) in respect of immaterial damage , plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be referred to below on the day of satisfaction.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Also imposes on the suspect the obligation to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named

victim 3, to pay an amount of € 20,000.00 (twenty thousand euros) as compensation for non-material damage , in the absence of payment and redress for 93 (ninety-three) days of detention , plus legal interest from the starting date to be mentioned below until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of this detention does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 1 January 2014.

Claim of the injured party victim 4
Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party victim 4 in respect of the evidence proven under 4 to the amount of € 20,000.00 (twenty thousand euros) in respect of immaterial damage , plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be mentioned below until on the day of satisfaction.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

In addition, imposes on the suspect the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim named victim 4, an amount of € 20,000.00 (twenty thousand euros) for compensation for non-material damage in respect of the evidence proven under point 4 , in the absence of payment and redress, replaced by 93 (ninety-three) days in custody , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date hereafter to the day of payment, on the understanding that the application of such custody obliges the State to pay damages for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 1 January 2005.

Claim of the injured party victim 6
Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party victim 6 in respect of the evidence proven under 6 to the amount of € 10,000.00 (ten thousand euros) in respect of immaterial damage , plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be referred to below on the day of satisfaction.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Also imposes on the suspect the obligation to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named

victim 6, to pay an amount of € 10,000.00 (ten thousand euros) as compensation for non-material damage , in the absence of payment and redress for 43 (forty-three) days of detention , plus legal interest from the starting date to be mentioned below until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of this detention does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 1 January 2010.

Claim of the injured party victim 7
Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party to victim 7 in respect of the evidence proven under 7 up to the amount of

€ 10,000.00 (ten thousand euros) for non-material damage , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Also imposes on the suspect the obligation to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named

victim 7, to pay an amount of € 10,000.00 (ten thousand euros) as compensation for immaterial damage , in the absence of payment and redress for 43 (forty-three) days of detention , plus legal interest from the starting date to be mentioned below until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of this detention does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 1 January 1999.

This judgment was given by G. Knobbout, ASI van Delden and WM Limborgh, in the presence of A. van der Schalk, clerk.

It was pronounced at the public hearing of the court of 5 April 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHDHA: 2019: 1027