Content indication
Decision in which a minor has been placed under supervision , confirmed on appeal. In principle, a child for the purpose of identity development, get status information at the earliest possible stage and dealing with the non-custodial parent to have. The mother refuses to cooperate in this. 1: 255 paragraph 1 BW, 1: 247 BW, 8 ECHR, 7 paragraph 1 CRC
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-01-08
Publication date
2019-01-22
Case number
200,247,281 / 01 and 200,247,281 / 02
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

case numbers: 200.247.281 / 01 and 200.247.281 / 02

Court case number: C / 13/648202 / JE RK 18/509

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 8 January 2019 concerning

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

applicant in the incident,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: I. Roos in Amsterdam,

and

Child Protection Board Amsterdam,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

defendant in the incident,

to be called: the council .

The following are considered as stakeholders:

- the minor minor (hereinafter referred to as: A);

- the certified Amsterdam Youth Protection Agency (hereinafter referred to as: the GI).

The following are designated as informers:

- Mr de Vader , the father of A (hereafter: the father ), assisted by ME van Zutphen, lawyer in Amsterdam.


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the juvenile court in the Amsterdam District Court of 5 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1.
The mother lodged an appeal on 5 October 2018 against the decision of 5 July 2018 (case number 200.247.281 / 01, hereinafter also: the substantive proceedings), and thereby applied for a suspension of the operation of the declaration of enforceability for stock of the contested decision (case number 200.247.281 / 02, hereinafter also: the application for suspension ).


2.2.
The council submitted a statement of defense on 8 November 2019.


2.3.
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a letter from the father of 6 November 2018, containing a response to the appeal, received on 7 November 2018;

- further documents on the part of the mother , namely appendices 3 to 5;

- a fax message from the mother of 9 November 2018, received on the same date, with appendix 6.


2.4.
The oral hearing of both cases took place on November 12, 2018. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the father , assisted by his lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. X.

Although the GI was mistakenly not summoned for the oral treatment, it was informed of the oral treatment in good time via the council . On 6 November 2018, the family guardian informed the clerk by telephone that he would not be able to appear at the hearing on appeal.


3 The facts

3.1.
From the (now ended) relationship of the mother and the father A was born, to take place in 2014. The father has recognized A. A is staying with the woman.

The mother has three minor children from other relationships , namely B, born in 2005, C, born in 2010 and D, born in 2017.


3.2.
The mother now lives with the father of C and D and the four children mentioned .


3.3.
The father has a partner with whom he lives.

He last saw A in January 2016.


3.4.
By judgment in interlocutory proceedings of 28 April 2016, the judge in interlocutory proceedings, insofar as relevant here, requested the Council , in the context of the proceedings brought by the father, to investigate whether an access arrangement between A and the parent with whom he had does not have his permanent residence in his interest, and if so, which.


3.5.
On 28 September 2016, the Council issued an opinion and took the position that the contact between the father and A would have to be restarted, with guidance and support being desirable.


3.6.
By decision of 21 June 2017, as far as currently relevant, the District Court established an access arrangement , whereby, briefly stated, father A will be with him once every two weeks for an hour and a half under the supervision of Altra , which contact will be successful can be expanded as shown in that decision. Also provides that if the woman does not wish to work with the guidance in the care arrangements , handling without supervision will take place in the manner described in the decision. After the motherhad appealed against this decision, by decision of 9 January 2018, to the extent relevant at present, this court asked the council to conduct an investigation into the possibilities for an access arrangement between the father and A, whether there are factors who impede intercourse and how the (possible) intercourse should be structured in the interest of A. The Court of Appeal referred the case back to the court on this point. On January 29, 2018, the court asked the council to conduct an investigation accordingly .


3.7.
The Council extended the investigation to a protection investigation and issued a report on 17 May 2018.


3.8.
After referral back by the court of appeal, the court ruled by order of 18 July 2018, in summary, that A should be given status information under proper supervision of specified assistance and that the relationship between the father and A would then be further shaped by the family manager. can be given, whereby the assistance involved , looking at the carrying capacity and carrying capacity of A, determines a provisional duration and frequency of the access arrangement . The court has the requests regarding the establishment of a visitation arrangementheld pending the execution of the supervision and the status information to be used for A.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1.
In the contested decision, insofar as it is currently relevant, A was placed under the supervision of the GI at the request of the council from 5 July 2018 to 5 July 2019.


4.2.
In the case on the merits, the mother requests that the Board 's request be rejected after the contested decision has been annulled . In addition, the mother requests that the enforceable stock of the contested decision pending the appeal be suspended. She requests the Council to pay the costs of both proceedings.


4.3.
At the hearing on appeal, the Council requested that the application be rejected in the main proceedings.


5 The reasons for the decision
In the bottom case:


5.1.
Pursuant to Article 1: the right to a 255 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor, assume the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247 paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. be able to wear.


5.2.
The mother is of the opinion that there are no grounds for placing A under supervision , and therefore relies on the following. One of the goals set by the juvenile court is that A is told who his father is. The mother is willing to tell A of this. However, she considers A to be too young at the moment. She wants to tell this when A is emotionally ripe for that. Status information has meanwhile taken place. A reacted angrily when the mother talked about the father . She therefore has assistance herselfenabled. It is now important for A that he has a stable life. No research has been done into whether (further) status information is appropriate and in the interest of A. The council and the mother disagree about the moment at which (further) status information should be given.

The home situation with the father is not safe. For example, father B once hung over the balcony. The mother stated at the hearing on appeal that this is the reason that the mother terminated the relationship between A and the father . B and C suffered traumas because of the father 's aggressive behavior . The mother is afraid of the father . A is now doing well. The home situation with the mother is safe. The mother relies on Article 1: 247 of the Dutch Civil Code and Article 8 of the European Convention for ProtectionHuman Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR). She puts the interests of the children first.


5.3.
The Board took the position that at the time of the adoption of the contested decision grounds were present for the supervision of A and that these are still present today. He referred to the findings in his report of 17 May 2018. At the hearing on appeal, he added that the age of giving status information is around three years old, since that is the age at which children gain notion of family relationships. The emotional safety of the child is taken into account. The mother is during supervisionhas not been motivated to accept assistance . She now has a first step put to status information, but also the other goals still need to be met, namely that A should not be burdened with worries and anxieties of the mother , which in any loyalty problems are working, that the mother and the father with together in conversation and that view comes on the educational situation in the father and the mother . The council is not confident that the problems can be tackled in a voluntary framework, now the mother she does not seem to acknowledge the problems outlined and therefore lacks the intrinsic motivation.


5.4.
The court considers as follows.

The following has emerged from the documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal. The father has not been in contact with A since January 2016, and until recently he did not know who his biological father is at all. On September 28, 2016 has the Board in connection with the above under paragraph 3.4. the aforementioned procedure advised that contact between A and the father be started, initially supervised by Altra (Parenthood Blijft) and then unaccompanied. By order of 21 June 2017, the court followed this advice (broadly). The mother has a conversation with Altralet them know that they are not open to the Parenthood Staying track . Subsequently, Altra attempted to use a process (Together Here) for long-term contact guidance. The conditions that Altra sets for the mother are, in short, that the mother gives emotional permission to A for contact with the father and that the mother cooperates in providing good status information to A. Because the mother was not prepared to meet the conditions, this process did not get off the ground either. It has also been found that A is the biological fathervan C and D as his father and calls him 'daddy'.


5.5.
Pursuant to Article 7, paragraph 1, of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), a child has the right from birth, as far as possible, to know his or her parents and to be cared for by them. In principle, a child for the purpose of identity development, get status information at the earliest possible stage and dealing with the non-custodial parent to have. It can be detrimental to the confidence that a child has in others if it becomes known at a later age that the person he regards as his parent is not his biological parentis. Now that A until recently did not know who his biological father is and now that he has no longer had contact with the father for a long period of time , there is a serious threat to his development . The fact that A is doing well at the moment and for the time being, does not mean, given his young age, that it is not possible to speak of the presence of a serious threat . In the opinion of the court, A, contrary to what the mother has argued, should be considered old enough to have his biological father to be informed. In the case of A, information is all the more important now that he lives in a family relationship with brothers who have other fathers and in which he, A, regards one of those fathers as his own father . This father lives with the mother and all four children and is a father figure for all children . In addition, it is not inconceivable that one of his brothers, who is aware of the fact that the father is the biological father of A, about the father at an (unexpected) momentwill tell, which is not in the interests of A in the least. This history and the composition of the mother's family require a special commitment from all parents to properly inform the children about their origins and to guide them in learning how to deal with the different roles that the various parent figures play in their lives. She does not seem to recognize the special dedication that is required of the mother . The same applies to A's interest in contact with his biological father , the father . From what the motherhas argued that there is resistance to contact with the father and that, as a result, she is unable to give emotional permission to A for contact with his father . The fact that the mother claims to be afraid of the father does not affect the importance of A to know who his biological father is and to have (some) contact with him in order to form an image of the father .

Furthermore, it appears from the documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal that the mother rejects all assistance . So did the mother do not cooperate in the mediation and handling guidance of Altra , and said they agreed for parenthood remains more times down. The mother also did not want to cooperate in providing assistance for status information. It is true that after A turned out to be angry when he was told about the father , she herself provided assistancebut it does not seem to have taken into account the approach required by the specific circumstances of this case.

Although status information has meanwhile taken place, A still has no contact with the father . There is no evidence that there is from the mother engaged emergency work towards. And although the mother stated at the hearing on appeal that she would like to talk to the father in a voluntary context , it has not been shown that she actually intends to work towards dealing with A and the father in any way . In doing so, the court takes into account that the mother is convinced that A's safety is with the fatheris not guaranteed and that to date she has resisted any interaction between the father and A, also under the proposed guidance by Altra . The mother fears that the father's involvement in A will have a negative influence on B and C. Because of these views of the mother , A is burdened with her fears and worries regarding the father and threatens to be burdened with a loyalty conflict . Now the mother takes care of that by the fatherare not recognized, the Court of Appeal considers it necessary that insight be gained into the parenting skills and the parenting climate of both parents , and that appropriate assistance is deployed if necessary . It will also be necessary to gain insight into the consequences of status information for A and to investigate the cause of the anger A showed after he was told about his father . The Court does not see any reason to assume that contact between A and the father will get off the ground in a voluntary framework , since the mother has not yet cooperated cooperatively in the coercive and coercive framework . Thus, despite the opinion ofthe council to call in Arkin, called in its own assistance , it did not share information about the assistance it deployed with the GI and it stated that it would not enter into discussions with the GI in a voluntary framework .


5.6.
In the light of all the aforementioned circumstances, also viewed in relation to each other, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that at the time of the contested decision grounds for supervising A were present and that these grounds still exist today. Now that the mother has not substantiated her appeal to Article 1: 247 of the Dutch Civil Code, the court of appeal ignores this. Finally, the mother 's appeal to Article 8 of the ECHR runs counter to what was considered above. The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.

In the suspension request:


5.7.
In view of the above, the mother no longer has an interest in assessing this request. The court will reject the request.

In both cases:


5.8.
The court sees reason to compensate for the costs of the proceedings.


5.9.
All the above leads to the next decision.


6 The decision
The court:

in the case with case number 200.247.281 / 01:

ratifies the decision whose appeal is made;

requests the Registrar to send a copy of this decision to the Registrar of the Amsterdam District Court, Civil Law Division, Family and Juvenile Law Team for the attention of the public register pursuant to the provisions of the Authority Registers Decree ;

in the case with case number 200.247.281 / 02:

rejects the request;

in both cases:

compensates the costs of both procedures in such a way that each party bears its own costs.

This decision was made by HA van den Berg, TAM Tijhuis and JA van Keulen, in the presence of T. Mekkelholt, as clerk of the court, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 8 January 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 63