Content indication
Interim relief. The appellant behaved towards his neighbor in such a way that there were facts and circumstances justifying a street and contact prohibition and that there was a sufficiently concrete threat that the appellant 's personal safety would in the near future be violated. Just as the first judge ruled, the events justify the imposed street and contact prohibition for a period of 12 months
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-08
Publication date
2019-12-09
Case number
200.252.639 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
civil and tax law department, team I

Case number: 200.252.639 / 01

Case number Court of Amsterdam: C / 13/657048 / KG ZA 18-1217 FB / JT

Judgment of the Multiple Civil Chamber of 8 October 2019

on

appellant,

living at residence,

appellant,

lawyer: WM Chung in Amsterdam.

against

timed,

living at home

timed,

lawyer: JM Brouwer in Amsterdam,


1 The appeal proceedings
Parties are hereinafter referred to as appellant and respondent.

appellant appealed on 7 January 2019 against a judgment of the civil relief judge in the Amsterdam court of 12 December 2018 (hereinafter: the preliminary relief judge), given in summary proceedings between the defendant as the plaintiff and the appellant as the defendant (also: the contested judgment).

The parties then submitted the following documents:

- statement of grievances, with productions;

- statement of defense, with productions.

The appellant has concluded that the court of appeal will set aside the contested judgment and will reject the claims of the defendant after all, with an order that the defendant should pay the costs of the proceedings in both instances.

the respondent requested by a statement of defense to ratify the contested judgment, with an order that the appellant - as the court understands - pay the costs of the proceedings with subsequent costs on appeal.

The parties had their positions explained further on 6 September 2019 by their aforementioned lawyers, each on the basis of pleading notes submitted to the court. The appellant himself was present, not the respondent.

Then judgment was requested.


2 Facts

2.1
In the judgment under 2.1 up to and including 2.13, the preliminary relief judge summarized the facts that he took as the starting point for the assessment of the case. These facts are not in dispute and therefore serve the court as a starting point. In summary, the facts amount to the following.


2.2
The respondent lives at the address X, together with the respondent and partner

their son who was a year on November 15, 2018. The respondent has lived there since 2002.


2.3
The appellant operates on the corner of the street and the street one

ice cream shop in the summer (Ice cream parlor name) and a food shop in the winter (hereinafter:

the store). The store is located at the address Y, but the

The entrance is at Westerstraat. On the first floor above the store

are the cold stores and storage space for the store. On the second and third

floor above the store, appellant lives with his two sons. appellant lives and

has been operating the store there since mid-2017.


2.4
Following an incident between parties in the summer of 2017 about

The façade benches of the store sent the respondent an e-mail of 15 August 2018 to the appellant (as well as to a few neighbors). In business terms, he stated that they had a bad start, but that it makes no sense to stay angry with each other. He proposed to speak out (possibly in the presence of acquaintances). In addition, the respondent indicated that he would rather not be threatened again if he appealed to the municipality and that he thought it would be fine not to go to his shop, as the appellant wished. The respondent suggests shaking hands and making a new start.


2.5
By e-mail of 16 August 2018 from the appellant addressed to the respondent (as well as

to some neighbors), the appellant has responded to the aforementioned e-mail. He has business

displayed the following. appellant has reminded the respondent of it

imposed shopping ban, stating that the next time that the respondent is intimidated in the

shop, the police are called immediately. The appellant states that the respondent has one month

has long complained about everything. In addition, the appellant states that his sons

do not feel safe and at ease at home or in the store because of intimidating

behavior of the respondent. Finally, the appellant states that he has received the invitation from

intimidated to talk things off, but that the other neighbors welcome

are in the shop for an introduction.


2.6
By e-mail of 4 September 2018 from the appellant addressed to the neighbor's name

(as well as some other neighbors, including the respondent) has the appellant,

presented concisely, the following. The appellant explains that a sliding door

on the street partly in the interest of the neighbors will now be this row formation

past the houses of the neighbors. the appellant further explains that it is not

the interest of the neighbors will be if he will have to sell the store, now the buyer

in that case it is likely to be Ice cream cup or Nutella. The appellant ends his e-mail

with the following: “We are going to request a sliding door and in the event of an objection, the person will be named by name and by name, so I will ring the doorbell every day - a bit of Brabant cosiness at the front door - and come and complain against your objection. Read well: this is absolutely no threat, absolutely no intimidation, absolutely no bullying ... just behavior accepted by all of you and I am just a Brabant farmer doing what he says, always. ”


2.7
There are various complaints between 15 August 2017 and 15 January 2018

regarding the operation of the store submitted to the municipality. These complaints

On late closing times of the store accompanied by noise, the terrace

for the door of the store, facade benches, facade advertising and preparation of

food in a kitchen above the store. According to the complainants, this is all the case

place contrary to the regulations, at least without a permit.


2.8
By e-mail of 3 March 2018, addressed to the appellant, the respondent complained

about nightly cleaning work (vacuuming, knocking with doors, running up stairs)


03.30
hour) so that, now that the walls are thin, he could not sleep. He wishes after 10 p.m.

no more noise nuisance and reports that a little insulation on the

stairs and walls (which he is willing to pay) would help a lot.


2.9
By e-mail from 3 March 2018, addressed to the respondent, the appellant,

presented the following. The appellant disputes that it was at 3 a.m.

has been cleaned and then lists the number of complaints submitted by the respondent

on (21 complaints up to and including mid-January 2018). appellant ends his e-mail with it

next: “Seriously Dear Neighbor: Who do you think you are ...? !!! Do you seriously think that I am impressed by your status as 'Nazi vd Buurt'. I told you at the time to intimidate my sons; Don't, come to me. But you still continue, which means that 15-year-old bicycle delivery boy has already come to me twice, that you are bothering him ... A very bad thing Weiland! Here also my answer to your question about insulation on walls and stairs: Not yet maybe!

- We have insulated the kitchen for you;

- Doors made soundproof for you;

- Instruction for everyone and everything given 'takes the neighbors into account' for you;

- Even to my son; when you return from the city, take the neighbor into account; and regret that I have now, because you keep going ...

You keep poking until you get the response you are looking for.

Be careful what you wish for, is the saying.

FYI: I have problems with my knees detected by the doctor, well old age and the sound-dampening floor rugs on the stairs encourage that; You know - those sound-damping rugs - that the old owner put on them for fear of you, because you terrorized those Years. Those rugs should really be sorry, but my knees are leading and my knees certainly do not collapse for your want-to-be-terror-Nazi behavior. Don't make me laugh hypocrisy Pisset that you're here! "


2.10
By e-mail of 5 March 2018, addressed to the municipality employee of the Supervision Directorate

and Enforcement of the municipality of Amsterdam, has rendered business-like,

forwarded the latter e-mail from the appellant. He pointed out the

threatening tone in that e-mail and has requested enforcement by the municipality.


2.11
Following the complaints, the Use Supervision inspectors have a

carried out a check, which showed that the operation of the store was contrary to the

applicable regulations. The appellant is a burden as a result of the inspection

imposed as a penalty .


2.12
On 25 August 2018, parties in the vicinity of the

store an incident occurred, following which the respondent on August 31

Has made a declaration against the appellant in 2018 of threat and (simple)

mistreatment.


2.13
On October 9, 2018, there were parties in the vicinity of the store

another incident occurred, prompting the respondent on 11 October

2018 has reported a (simple) abuse to the appellant .


2.14
By letter of 26 October 2018 from (the lawyer of) the respondent addressed to

the appellant have been referred to as the aforementioned incidents and is the appellant,

to abstain from it in any way with immediate effect

to contact the respondent in a manner, on pain of corporal coercion and of a

periodic penalty payment, whereby the appellant must also cooperate in recording this

summons in a notarial deed. The appellant did not respond to this letter.


3 Review

3.1
the defendant claimed in the first instance, in short, enforceable in stock, primarily : (i) prohibiting the appellant, on pain of a penalty , from being served in the broadest sense, for at least two years after service of this judgment, in person, in writing, electronically (including e-mail and social media) or

to come into contact verbally, with the defendant, and within a radius of

ten meters from the timed person, under the stipulation that the timed person charges

due to the possible enforcement will be due on the appellant can

to prohibit recovery, as well as (ii) appellant, on pain of a penalty , to go in any way for two years after service of this judgment:

a. at the address X in Amsterdam to the other side of the bridge

on the street at street level, at least; b. within a radius of five meters from the front door of the address X in Amsterdam, at least a distance to be determined in good justice;

alternatively : to make a provision to be determined in good justice.


3.2
The appellant has defended itself against the claims.


3.3
In the contested judgment, the preliminary relief judge forbids, insofar as currently relevant, (i) the appellant from contacting orally or otherwise in person, in writing, electronically (including e-mail and social media) for twelve months after service of this judgment. timed; (ii) the appellant is in the area within a radius of three meters of the respondent for twelve months after service of this judgment ; (iii) the appellant is in the area within a radius of three meters from the front door at address X in Amsterdam for twelve months after service of this judgment , (iv) all this on pain of a penalty .


3.4
To this end, the preliminary relief judge has considered that a street and contact prohibition constitutes a violation of the right to move freely and to communicate freely that the allocation of these drastic measures must involve high the plausible facts and circumstances that may justify such an infringement and in addition there must be a sufficiently concrete threat that the personal safety of the defendant will be violated by the appellant in the near future. The preliminary relief judge furthermore considers that appellant as an entrepreneurrepeatedly seeks out the limits of what is permitted and even exceeds it now and then, that it is plausible that respondents experience a great deal of trouble, that appellant up to now does not seem to be open to a problem-solving conversation, that the appellant's e-mails for a average reader have a threatening tone and that based on the images shown of the incidents on 25 August 2018 and 9 October 2018 - where it is unlikely that the images were tampered with, in the sense that images were omitted from it - it appears that on August 25, 2018, the appellant has an aggressive posture towards those with a small childruns on his arm and moves his head towards the head of the respondent and on 9 October 2018 that the appellant bumps the respondent in the back of his front door, without it being visible that the appellant has touched. The preliminary relief judge concludes that this makes it understandable that the respondent feels threatened and fears a repeat of what has taken place. The claim is partially granted so that the appellant is not unnecessarily restricted in his freedom of movement.


3.5
The appellant appeals against this judgment and puts forward five complaints. The first complaint is opposed to the consideration of the preliminary relief judge that appellant regularly seeks and also goes beyond the limits of what is permissible, and that his cited e-mails have a threatening tone for the average reader. With his second complaint, the appellant disputes the consideration of the preliminary relief judge that it is unlikely that the video images shown were tampered with and that those images are admissible for the assessment of the claims. The third complaint is directed against the description that the preliminary relief judge gives of what is visible on the video images shown. With his fourth complaint, the appellant disputes the conclusion of the preliminary relief judge that it is understandable that the defendant is being takenfeel threatened and fears repetition. The fifth complaint is directed against the restriction by the preliminary relief judge of the contact prohibition to - as the court understands: only - three meters: according to the appellant, too little attention is paid to his need for freedom of movement. The complaints are suitable for joint treatment. The court considers as follows.


3.6
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, by sending the e-mails cited above, the appellant has repeatedly violated the limits of the permissible and thus acted unlawfully towards the respondent. The e-mails in question have an intimidating and needless effect. The Court of Appeal considers it important that the appellant has not taken this into account at any time. On the contrary: he blames the cause of the conflict that arose between him and the intimidator solely on the intimidator and states that, for his part, " there was never talk of aggression and anything similar to that".


3.7
At the court session, both the images of the events on 25 August 2018 and 9 October 2018 that the respondent brought in as production were shown a number of times, as well as the images that the appellant has of the events on 9 October 2018. Parties are involved I had the opportunity to give their views on those images.


3.7.1
The appellant has argued that the images shown by the respondent have been manipulated, in the sense that the images of 25 August 2018 have been delayed, as well as that part of the events has been removed ('cut away'). According to the appellant, this flipped-out part relates to the pricked person pricking his fingers into the abdomen of the appellant, just before the appellant makes a movement with his head towards the respondent. The court rules as follows. The images of 25 August 2018 show that the respondent with a small child on his arm near his homeruns, after which the appellant approaches him and the respondent walks behind. Those images, the accuracy of which has not been challenged by the appellant, show that the appellant seeks confrontation with the defendant and that the defendant apparently frightens and falls back. It can also be seen from the images that the appellant, at the moment he is just before the defendant, makes a movement with his head, towards the head of the defendant, such that he touches the head of the defendant or nearly touches it. The appellant also did not dispute that those events took place. Whether just before appellant movement with his head the appellant would have poked his fingers with a few fingers in his stomach, as the appellant claims and challenged the accused, the court cannot determine in the context of this summary proceedings. Although the written statement of A, who brought the defendant to the proceedings, confirms the authenticity of the images, the court cannot ascertain in the context of this summary proceedings which images the defendant has shown to A. Even if happened what the appellant claims would have been - which, incidentally, seems unlikely in view of the fact that the respondent with a smallchild walked on his arm - then the behavior of the appellant (making a head movement towards the respondent) is unacceptable. That the respondent has felt threatened as a result , as he repeatedly argues in the documents, is certainly conceivable.


3.7.2
On the images of 9 October 2018 as they were put at stake, but also on the images shown by the appellant at the hearing, it can be seen that respondents walk to his front door in the evening - it is dark - while the appellant is out on the street sits on a bench, which the appellant, after the appellant has passed by, stands up and touches him on the back when the respondent has arrived at his front door. In the opinion of the court, what can be seen on the images is not so much characterized as 'knocking someone on the shoulder' to ask for their attention, but pushing it into someone else's back with some force. Partly in view of the threatening e-mails sent earlier by the appellant and the events on 25 August 2018,


3.8
In the opinion of the court of appeal, the appellant behaved towards the respondent in such a way that there were facts and circumstances that justify a street and contact prohibition and that there was a sufficiently concrete threat that the personal safety of the respondent in the near future the appellant would be violated.


3.9
On behalf of the defendant, it was argued at the hearing on appeal that after the contested judgment no more problems arose between the appellant and the defendant. the appellant has stated that after this judgment, he handed over to him once wrongly delivered letters in the appellant's shop, which, according to the appellant, shows that the respondent is no longer threatened by himfeels. Apart from the fact that it is not certain that this event took place - the defendant's lawyer disputed it for lack of knowledge - the conclusion drawn by the appellant cannot be drawn from this: the delivery of an incorrectly delivered letter in a shop during the day cannot be compare with the events on August 25 and October 9, 2018 and does not mean that the respondent apparently feels completely safe again. The court agrees with the preliminary relief judge that the events insofar as they have become plausible in these interim proceedings justified the imposed street and contact prohibition for a period of 12 months. It has not been found that this street and contact bancould take place in an effective way by setting an even shorter prohibition distance than three meters; sufficient account has therefore been taken of the interests of the appellant. The appellant has been seriously restricted in his freedom of movement due to the restraining order . In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the contact and street prohibition, as imposed in the contested judgment, was therefore justified.


3.10
The conclusion is that the grievances fail. The contested judgment will be ratified. As the unsuccessful party, the appellant will be ordered to pay the costs of the appeal.


4 Decision
The court:

ratifies the judgment appealed;

orders the appellant to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings, to date on the part of the respondent budgeted at disbursements of € 324 and € 3,222 for salary and € 157 for salary, plus € 82, 00 for after-salary and the costs of the service of notification in the event that this judgment is served, plus the statutory interest, if the costs are not met within fourteen days after this judgment or the subsequent costs become due;

declares the process cost order enforceable in stock

This judgment was given by mrs. GC Boot, JC Toorman and WJJ Wetzels and publicly pronounced by the chairman on 8 October 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3626