Content indication
Request grandmother to deal with granddaughter rejected to prevent loyalty conflict with granddaughter and secure her place in the foster home .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-08-22
Publication date
2019-09-11
Case number
200.255.717 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.255.717 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 18/185392 / FA RK 18-2018)

decision of 22 August 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the grandmother,

lawyer: mr. RW de Gruijl in Rotterdam,

and

defendant,

without permanent residence or place of residence ,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: M. Helmantel in Sappemeer.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the certified institution

Youth and Youth Home Protection Foundation ,

established in Groningen

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of 12 February 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 6 March 2019;

- a letter from Mr. De Gruijl of March 29, 2019;

- a news report from Helmantel of 25 April 2019.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 10 July 2019. The grandmother has appeared, assisted by mr. LHEM Berendse - de Gruijl (office colleague of

mr. De Gruijl) and the mother has appeared, assisted by her lawyer. Mrs B appeared on behalf of the GI .


3 The facts

3.1
The mother exercises parental authority over the minor1 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor1), born in 2011. The mother still has two minor children: the minor2 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor2), born in 2004 and the minor3 (further to be called: the minor3), born in 2017.


3.2
the minor1 was placed under the supervision of the GI by decision of 20 December 2016 . By decision of 2 March 2018, the minor1 was placed in a foster care facility by means of an emergency authorization for out-of- home placement . Both measures were subsequently (always) extended.


3.3
this summer the minor1 will live with another minor3 in another (perspective-providing) foster family in C, after having stayed in a crisis foster family for a long time . the minor2 lives since April 2016 with his uncle (brother 's side ).


3.4
The grandmother asked the court by petition, received on July 4, 2018, to determine that she and the minor1 interact with each other every weekend from Friday afternoon out of school until Sunday evening at 5:00 pm , or an access arrangement that the court in the interest of the minor1 is desirable.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
There is (the interpretation of) the right of association between the grandmother and the minor1 between the parties . By the contested decision of 12 February 2019, the court rejected the grandmother's request to establish access arrangements between her and the minor1 (see 3.4).


4.2
The grandmother appealed against the contested decision with one complaint. It asks the court decision to annul the contested and still determine the minderjarige1 and grandmother every weekend from Friday after school until Sunday 17:00 dealings with each other, or such a visitation to determine if the court in the interest of the minor1 considers it desirable and who (much more) takes into account the right to family life between the minor1 and the minor2.


4.3
The mother made an oral defense at the hearing and requests the Court to ratify the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Article 1: 377a (1) of the Civil Code (BW), a child has the right to have contact with his parents and with the person who is in close personal relationship with him.

Pursuant to paragraph 2 of that article, the court, at the request of the parents or of one of them or of the person in close personal relationship with the child , decides whether or not for a definite period of time to govern the exercise of access rights . or deny whether or not for some time, the right to association .

Article 1: 377a BW paragraph 3 provides that the courts the right to deal only denied if:

a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of the child , or

b. the parent or the person in close personal relationship with the child must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or

c. the child who is twelve years of age or older , during his hearing of serious objections to dealing with his parent or with the person with whom he has a close personal relationship, or

d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.2
On appeal, the Court did not upset the judgment that there was a close personal relationship between the grandmother and the minor1 so that the court of appeal would also assume this. The question before us is whether the grandmother right to association should be denied on the grounds mentioned above.


5.3
The court agrees with the court that dealing with the grandmother and the minor1 in the current circumstances is in conflict with important interests of the minor1. On appeal, no facts or circumstances were put forward that lead to a different opinion. The Court of Appeal refers to the grounds of the court in the contested decision, adopts this after its own investigation , makes it its own and adds the following.


5.4
the minor1 is a girl of almost eight years who has experienced a lot of unrest and insecurity in her upbringing situation and has been placed out of the home for almost a year and a half. The documents submitted and what was discussed during the oral hearing showed that the relationship between the mother and the grandmother was seriously disturbed . In the early years of the minor 's life, the grandmother took over many of the mother ' s caring duties and played a determining role within the family. The fact that there has been no interaction between the minor1 and the grandmother for more than three years is a consequence of the fact that the minor2 in April 2016 after a conflict with themother ran away from home to the grandmother and his uncle and has been staying there ever since. The mother has distanced herself from the grandmother and her brother, with whom she has no contact at the moment. Assistance (via D) to restore the family relationship (s) did not get off the ground. The GI considers it to be in the best interests of the minor1 that she should be confronted as little as possible with the tensions in the family and is of the opinion that an arrangement with the grandmother is not currently desirable. There is a risk that the minor1 will end up in a loyalty conflict between the grandmother and the motherand / or between the grandmother and the foster parents, putting pressure on the perspective of the minor1 and the bond with her mother . The interaction between the minor1 and the mother has recently been reduced to once every four weeks and the GI now focuses mainly on maintaining and strengthening contact between the minor1 and the mother and minor2.


5.5
The Court of Appeal stated first and foremost that contact between grandparents and grandchildren is in the interest of children , because they can form an image of their identity and background. In this case, however , contact would seriously harm the mental health and development of the minor1.

This judgment is based court does not doubt the ability of the grandmother in a caring manner specific about the deal , but on the strength of the mother against handling and unrest and tensions arising from the conflict between the grandmother and the mother result. the minor 1 receives this from it anyway, even though she is staying in a (neutral) foster home , a few things and that the court deems undesirable . While the Court understands that the grandmother minderjarige1 the fog should be avoided dealinghas a negative impact on the minor1. In its assessment, the Court of Appeal considered that the minor1 is currently in an exciting phase in which she will soon be (or has been) transferred to another foster family in a completely different environment . The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the minor1 should be given the rest and space in the coming period to get used to it and to adhere undisturbed to the foster parents and that the access arrangements with the mother and her brother must first be stabilized.


5.6
Finally, the court sees no reason to hold the case in connection with the current changes in the minor's life1 , as the grandmother suggested at the hearing, now that the mother has objected to this and, given the complex family dynamics, it is expected that the situation will improve sufficiently in the foreseeable future. The Court sees no reason for a research council to order now the council has put forward at first instance that first the situation should normalize before intercourse may be between the grandmother and the minderjarige1. The situation within the system is according to the councilThe situation has only worsened since a previous council investigation and this unrest1 gets the minor1 (directly or indirectly), which is taxing and confusing for her. The GI indicated (at the hearing) that the interaction between the grandmother and the minor1 remains under attention. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that a neutral and professional body such as the GI can best estimate the possibilities, space and needs of the minor1 with regard to (the structure and content of) an access arrangement , taking into account recent developments .


5.7
Taking all things into account, the Court of Appeal finds that establishing an access arrangement between the grandmother and the minor1 is not in her interest at the moment. The court therefore rejects the grandmother's request.


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision and decide as follows.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

confirms the decision of the Noord-Nederland District Court, location Groningen, of

12 February 2019.

This decision was made by mrs. JDSL Bosch, MP den Hollander and

MAF Holtvluwer-Veenstra, assisted by E. Klijn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on August 22, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 6840