Content indication
The mother's request to be entrusted with the joint authority was rejected.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-23
Publication date
2019-05-07
Case number
200.244.262 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 3912
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.244.262 / 01

Court case number: C15 / 266793 / FA RK 17-6756

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 23 April 2019 concerning

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: DEM Boukens in Purmerend, The Netherlands

and

the father ,

living at home,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: mr. RJC Silven in Volendam.

The following is considered as an interested party / parties:

- the minor , (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ).

Called as an informant:

- the certified institution De Jeugd-Gezinsbeschermers in Alkmaar, (hereinafter referred to as: the GI).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Noord-Holland District Court, location Alkmaar of 9 May 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 3 August 2018 against the aforementioned decision of 9 May 2018.


2.2
The father filed a statement of defense on October 12, 2019.


2.3
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a letter from the GI of March 11, 2019 with appendices, received on March 14, 2019. The family manager has indicated that he will not appear and inform the court through the documents, including the family plan.


2.4.
The oldest counselor spoke with the minor prior to the hearing .


2.5
The oral hearing took place on 25 March 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer. For the mother , Mrs. M. Verhoof acted as an interpreter in the Thai language;

- the father , assisted by his lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. DM van Dijk.


2.6
At the hearing, the parents and the council representative received the documents mentioned under 2.3 and took note of this during a suspension .


3 The facts

3.1
From the now broken relationship of the mother and father is born:

- the minor to be born in 2003;

The mother has until the contested decision only the authority exercised over the minor . The father has recognized the minor .

the minor has been living with her father since October 2013 .


3.2
the minor has been under the supervision of the GI since 19 September 2017 and this measure has been extended to 19 September 2019. By order of 15 January 2019 by the juvenile court judge in the Noord-Holland court, location Alkmaar, an authorization has been granted for the placement of the child minor in a youth care provider accommodation until 19 September 2019 at the latest.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision terminated , as far as it is now relevant, the authority of the mother over the minor and stipulates that the father has sole authority over the minor . This decision has been declared enforceable from stock.


4.2
The mother requests, with the annulment of the contested decision, as far as practicable in stock, that the father and mother be jointly charged with custody of the minor .


4.3
The father requests primarily to reject the mother 's appeal and to confirm the decision of 9 May 2018. In the alternative, he requests that parents be entrusted with joint custody of the minor .


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
In the appeal, as supplemented at the hearing, the mother argues - briefly summarized - that it is in the interests of the minor that both parents are charged with custody . This can have a positive effect on the contact between her and the minor . The mother is afraid that the father will completely disregard her as a mother if he alone has authority . Luckily contact with the minor has recently started again. The mother cannot deny the parentsunable to consult with each other about the minor . At the hearing on appeal, the mother indicated that she was unable to undertake an auxiliary process with the father . According to the mother , joint parental authority will not cause any problems in practice. She has always given permission for everything. Only once did she set a condition, namely when applying for a passport . The mother then wanted the minor to bear her family name. Finally, the measure of supervision may promote the understanding between theparents will improve.


5.2
In the statement of defense, as supplemented at the hearing, the father argues - briefly summarized - that communication between the parents has not been possible for five years and that the mother has made this more difficult. Due to her intellectual disability, she can not properly assess the interests of the minor . Although there is now contact again between the minor and her mother , it seems that she wants to buy the minor 's love by lending her a lot of money. The mother also did not report that the minor stayed with her for the night, leaving the fatherwas very worried and had to look for her. The development of the minor is variable. The fact that the father only exercises authority has created a lot of peace for everyone and makes it possible for decisions to be taken energetically.


5.3
The Council takes the view that the contested decision should be ratified, because the minor is a vulnerable girl who needs a lot of treatment and appeals to her educator (s). It is not going well if the parents have to make decisions about her together. A support process for this has also not got off the ground and furthermore does not seem feasible.


5.4
the minor has indicated that she has lived with her father so far , but that she is awaiting a treatment place at Triversum. She suffers from depression and school is not doing well either. She would like it if both parents had control over her, but her father the most.


5.5
The court considers the following. Under Article 1: 253c, first paragraph, Civil Code, insofar as relevant, may maintain the authority competent parent of the child who never has the authority jointly with the parent from whom the child is exercised born in court request him to be entrusted only with custody of the child . Pursuant to the third paragraph of that same article, the request is only granted if the court deems it desirable in the best interests of the child .


5.6
The current family plan sent by the GI shows that there are concerns about the development of the minor . She has a very disharmonic intelligence profile and there is a reactive attachment disorder. She makes gloomy statements and feels empty and sad. There is talk of school absence . the minor will soon start a treatment process at Triversum. For peace and clarity for the minor , her parents and caregivers it is very important that no noise will occur with regard to the decisions that have to be made about the care and upbringing of the child.minor . It is also desirable in her interest that these decisions can be taken energetically. The mother has not shown in recent years that she is able to exercise her authority in the best interests of the minor . The father has actually made the decisions and there has not always been contact between the minor and her mother . It can be doubted whether the mother is sufficiently capable of looking after the interests of the minor properly, because - partly due to her childhood experience in Thailand - she has been unable to develop sufficiently. A few examples show that the mother does not act strongly pedagogically when she lends the minor a large sum of money for entertainment activities. The mother also does not realize that it is important to inform the other parent about an unexpected minor's stay with her.

The inability of the mother is not compensated by a good cooperation relationship with the father of the minor . The opposite appears, namely that the parents have not been able to consult for years about the care and upbringing of the minor . At the hearing on appeal, the mother also stated that she would not want to talk to the GI about the minor in the presence of the father . It therefore seems unrealistic to expect the parents with the help of the GI within a foreseeable period of time will be able to consult and take decisions jointly.

All this leads to the conclusion that the primary request of the father to only charge him with parental authority was rightly granted by the juvenile court. The court will then no longer be entitled to the subsidiary request, which does have the consent of the mother , to jointly entrust the parents with parental authority .


5.7
Based on what has been considered above, the court will ratify the contested decision and decide as follows.


6 The decision
The court:

endorses the decision of the Noord-Holland District Court, Alkmaar, on 9 May 2018;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal;

requests the clerk to send a copy of this decision to the clerk of the court of Noord-Holland, team family and juvenile law (location Alkmaar), for the attention of the public register under the provisions of the Decision on authority registers.

This decision was made by GW Brands-Bottema, AN van de Beek and PJWM Sliepenbeek, in the presence of the clerk, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on 23 April 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 1427