Content indication
Joint authority . Although the clamp-or-lose criterion has been met, joint authority . 1: 253c BW.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-03-12
Publication date
2019-07-29
Case number
200,248,241
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.248.241 / 01

(Case numbers Court of Central Netherlands 447294 and 447293)

decision of 12 March 2019

on

applicant,

living at home,

applicant in the main appeal,

the defendant in the incidental appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: M. Erkens in The Hague,

and

defendant,

living at home,

respondent in the main appeal,

applicant in the incidental appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: CM Bijl in Amsterdam.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the certified institution

Together Safe Central Netherlands,

established in Utrecht,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decisions of the Midden-Nederland District Court, location Utrecht, of 26 January 2018, 25 June 2018 and 19 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers. The decision of 19 July 2018 is hereinafter referred to as the contested decision.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the notice of appeal also containing a request for suspension with productions, received on October 19, 2018;

- the statement of defense also containing (conditional) incidental appeal with productions 39 to 43;

- the defense in the incidental appeal;

- a journal report from mr. Bijl of 27 November 2018 with productions 44 to 46;

- a journal report from mr. Bijl of 8 February 2019 with productions 46 to 49.


2.2
In its decision of 18 December 2018, the Court of Appeal rejected the mother 's request for suspension of the operation of the contested decision.


2.3
The oral hearing of the other requests took place on 19 February 2019. Her lawyer appeared on behalf of the mother . The father appeared in person, assisted by his lawyer. No one appeared on behalf of the GI , although properly called upon. The RvdK employee appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Council ).


3 The facts

3.1
Parties are the parents of child (hereafter: child ), born on the date of birth 2017 at the place.


3.2
By judgment in summary proceedings of 4 October 2017, the judge in interlocutory proceedings in the Midden-Nederland District Court, location Utrecht, established a (provisional) access arrangement between the father and child forfeiting a penalty imposed on the mother .


3.3
The father filed a petition on September 29, 2017 to the court and asked him the permission to grant recognition of a child , determining that he and the mother is responsible for the custody of her and make arrangements to fix.


3.3
By order of November 3, 2017, the District Court for the Central Netherlands, Utrecht location, mr. AMPM Adank Utrecht under the procedure substitute consent for recognition to special guardian appointed.


3.4
By order of 26 January 2018, the court established a provisional access arrangement and determined that the child resides with the father :

- in the first month: one hour once a week, namely every Saturday from 5 pm to 6 pm;

- in the second and third months: two hours once a week, namely every Saturday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.

- from the third month: two hours twice a week, namely every Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. and every Saturday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.

The court has determined that the interaction will be supervised by a neutral person from the father 's network , until the council concludes that this is no longer necessary, sentenced the mother to pay the father a penalty of € 250, - for each time that she does not comply with the access arrangement , up to a maximum of € 2,500, and asked the council to investigate the question of which use is in the best interests of the child .


3.5
By order of 25 June 2018, the District Court granted the father substitute permission to recognize a child and asked the Council to investigate whether joint custody is in the best interests of the child .


3.6
The council reported and advised on 27 June 2018.


3.7
By order of 5 July 2018, the court placed the child under the supervision of the GI for the duration of one year, until 5 July 2019. This order was ratified by order of this court of 17 January 2019.


3.8
The father has child recognized on November 14, 2018.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested - enforceable declared - Decision of July 19, 2018, the court, the parents jointly charged with the custody of a child , as an interim care arrangements provide that child and father every week for two hours dealings will have with each other, the contact ( duration and frequency) between them in consultation with the emergency services is designed according to the instructions and insights of the emergency services , whereby the contact will be guided to the emergency serviceswhether the parties decide otherwise in mutual consultation and reserve the decision with regard to the definitive care arrangement .


4.2
The mother appealed against the contested decision with three complaints. The mother requests the Court of Appeal to annul that decision and, once again in possession, as far as possible enforceable in stock, to reject the father 's requests to be jointly charged with parental authority and to establish a care or access arrangement or the handling deny.


4.3
The father lodged a defense in the main appeal. In addition, the father lodged an incidental appeal.

The father requests:

in the main appeal :

- ratify the contested decision;

in the incidental appeal :

- primarily: determine the principal place of residence of the child with the father ;

- in the alternative: determine that the council must investigate whether placement in the home is in the best interests of the child and into the possibilities that the father can offer therein; and

- only in the event that the Court of Appeal grants the mother 's request that the parties not jointly be entrusted with the custody , to determine that the following access arrangement is established between the father and child :

- week one up to and including four: two hours of guided intercourse per week;

- week four to eight: four hours of guided intercourse per week;

- week eight to twelve: six hours of guided intercourse per week;

- week twelve to sixteen: eight hours of interaction per week, whereby the first and the last hour take place under supervision ;

- week sixteen to twenty: ten hours of interaction per week, with the first hour taking place under supervision ;

- week twenty to twenty-four: twelve hours of interaction per week, without supervision ,

in which the times are set in consultation with youth protection , or to determine an access arrangement if the court deems appropriate.


4.4
The mother put forward a defense in the incidental appeal.


4.5
At the oral hearing of 19 February 2019, the father withdrew his request to determine the principal place of residence of the child with him. The court will therefore declare the father inadmissible in this request.


5 The reasons for the decision
With regard to parental authority


5.1
Under Article 1: 253c paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) the until it authority competent parent of the child who never has the authority jointly with the parent from whom the child is exercised born, the court ask the parents to the joint authority or only to burden him with the authority over the child . The second paragraph of this article stipulates that if the request is intended to entrust the parents with joint custody and the other parent with joint custody does not agree, the request is only rejected if

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child might become trapped or lost between the parents and that it is not expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, or b. rejection is otherwise necessary in the best interest of the child .


5.2
The mother states in its first complaint that the father child at the time of the contested decision had not recognized and therefore not until the authority had jurisdiction so the court the joint custody is granted in the contested decision violates the law. The father defends.


5.3
The Court of Appeal finds that the father acknowledged child on November 14, 2018. He is now to the authority competent parent of child and next to mother is charged with parental authority . The mother therefore no longer has an interest in the assessment of this complaint. Mother's complaint I fails to that extent.


5.4
The mother cannot agree with the contested decision and relies on the following. The mother believes that with joint custody of a child there is not only an unacceptable risk that the child may become trapped or lost between the parents , but that single-headed custody is also otherwise necessary in the child 's interest . The mother has contracted PTSD because of her experiences with the father and she fears that the father will abuse the child emotionally and physically. During the relationship of the parties, the father was guilty of rape of the mother , anger with screams and explosive aggression for the smallest things, wanting to control mother's life, cursing, threatening and being derogatory. To substantiate her statements, the mother submitted her report and witness statements. Self-protection and protection of child wants the mother therefore no way to communicate with the Father . For kids tooProtect is the mother so far as to penalties forfeit and outplacement risk by not cooperating in fellowship .


5.5
The father makes a motivated defense. First denies the father of the allegations of the mother . The council carried out extensive research , in which the general practitioner and neighborhood teams were approached, and advised joint authority . No problems have occurred since the father has been charged with parental authority . If the mother is single-handedly charged with custody of a child, the father fears that his role in the life of a child will be is further limited and that is not in the interest of the child . The mother 's refusal to communicate with him is not in the best interests of the child , according to the father . The mother does not take the responsibility of an authoritative parent . If the mother is not itself state its image of the father to improve, then they should do care turn to, again according to the father .


5.6
For oral treatment, the Council advised to maintain joint custody of a child . The current situation, in which the father is banned from the life of a child and in which, according to the council, there is even parental rejection , is created exclusively by the mother . The fear of the mother to the father and her resistance to him growing child with a negative image of the Father . The Council also does not see that this situation will improve in the short term. The motherrefuses any help other than the help it considers appropriate. In addition, the mother does not act in the best interest of the child by looking up the media and publicity. The council therefore also has great concerns about child . The council does not refer to the daily care of a child , but to its long-term personality development. To overcome this situation, considering the board even home placement of children to ask.


5.7
The court considers as follows. With the mother , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there is an unacceptable risk of the child becoming trapped or lost between the parents without any improvement being expected within the foreseeable future. This determination should mean in principle that only the mother the custody of a child should have. Nevertheless, the court in this case considered that in the interest of a child that the parents together the authorities have and hold. After all, the mother does not offer any opening to the fatherto be involved in child 's life . She goes so far as to play down the role of fathers in general, and the father in particular, in the lives of children and seeks publicity about this. The Court of Appeal has not shown any evidence or prospect that the attitude of the mother will change on this point. Nor has it been found that the mother has called in help to remove her resistance to contact with the father , even if this only concerns contact with regard to child . The motherstates that she works on herself through meditation, yoga, mindfulness and hypnotherapy. It has not been apparent to the court that these methods are aimed at reducing or removing the mother 's barrier to the father . Some (medical) substantiation is also missing in this context. In so doing, she grossly neglects her obligation to promote the development of ties between a child and her father . The court considers that the mother will so clearly against the interests of a child act, it would be irresponsible that she alone has the authority over child has. The Court of Appeal considers this decision to be justified, even if the so-called clamp or lost criterion is met, because the child has been placed under the supervision of the GI . Mother's complaint II fails.

With regard to the care scheme


5.8
Pursuant to Section 1: 253a of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may, at the request of the parents or one of them, lay down rules concerning the exercise of parental authority . These regulations may include: a. An allocation to each of the parents of the care and upbringing duties, and with a corresponding application of Section 1: 377a (3) of the Dutch Civil Code, a temporary prohibition on a parent to have contact with the child ;

b. the decision with which parent the child has his or her main residence .


5.9
In view of what has been considered above, the conditional request of the father in the incidental appeal as set out in paragraph 4.3 of the judgment no longer requires discussion, so that the court will reject this request.


5.10
The mother believes that interaction is contrary to the overriding interests of the child , because interaction causes stress complaints and trauma to the mother , which affects child . In addition, contact between the father and child could lead to a negative father image of the child and, according to the mother, there is a development risk because the child is confronted with a dominant, compelling and aggressive personality.


5.11
The father contradicts the mother 's statements . The mother has her stress symptoms and trauma of the father unsubstantiated (enough). The image that the mother of the father has, according to the father , lead to a negative father image to child , as the mother not only intercourse prevents, but the father also disqualifies . According to the father , there is therefore parental alienation . The fatherFinally, it is important for the identity development of a child that she has contact with the father .


5.12
For oral treatment, the Council advised to establish contact between the father and child . According to the council , the youth protector can act as an intermediary in this case. The youth protector can thereby consider what conditions must be created to start a care scheme . Only if there is contact, is the child able to create an image of the father himself, according to the council .


5.13
On the same grounds as the court and in accordance with the advice of the council , which takes over the court and makes it his, the court is of the opinion that it is in the child 's interest that she has contact with the father . The court adds the following.

Like the court, the court is of the opinion that it is in the best interests of the child that contact with the father is started as soon as possible, so that the father too will soon play a role in the child 's life . Even if all the mother voiced allegations are true, what has not been established, it can contact the father in a child safely take place. The Court of Appeal finds it important that the father has shown insight in his incidental request that the contact will have to be established. The court assumes that the youth protectorwill expressly make an effort to establish contact between the father and child , whereby the youth protector can use the instruments he deems necessary.


5.14
On the basis of the documents and the oral procedure, the Court of Appeal considers itself sufficiently informed to be able to make a decision. The Court of Appeal will declare the father inadmissible in his request for investigation by the council into the placement of a child . The father is not authorized to make such a request.


6 The conclusion

6.1
Based on what has been considered above, the grievances of the mother fail . The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision, insofar as subject to its judgment.


6.2
On the basis of what has been considered above, the court will declare the father inadmissible in his request for a change of the principal place of residence of a child and in his request for an investigation into a placement in the home and reject the other requests.


7 The decision
The court, having

in the main appeal :

endorses the order of the Central Netherlands Court, location Utrecht,

of July 19, 2018, as far as subject to the judgment of the court;

in the incidental appeal:

explains the father inadmissible its request for amendment of the principal residence of a child and an investigation by the council for a home placement of children ;

in the principal and incidental appeal also:

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. A. Smeeïng-van Hees, JH Lieber and H. Phaff, assisted by M. van Esveld, clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 12 March 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 2197