Content indication
Authority and interaction . The children are completely trapped by the behavior and attitude of the parents , according to the psychologists . Assistance did not help. Joint authority cannot be maintained. The children show great resistance to contact with the father and will be disadvantageous for the children, so that the father is denied the right to association . Mediation is a pass station.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-16
Publication date
2019-04-24
Case number
200.244.729 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.244.729 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 18/176759 / FA RK 17-1717)

decision of 16 April 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant in the main appeal,

defendant in the incidental appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

P. Rietberg, lawyer, mr.

and

defendant,

residing in A,

the defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in the cross-appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: M. Helmantel in Hoogezand - Sappemeer.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of 17 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 24 August 2018;

- the statement of defense also occasionally appeals with production (s);

- the statement of defense in the incidental appeal with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Rietberg of 10 September 2018 with production (s);

- a letter from the Council for Child Protection (hereinafter: the council ) on September 12, 2018, accompanied by accompanied by a report of the Board of March 28, 2018;

- a letter from Jeugdbescherming Noord, location Groningen (hereinafter referred to as: the GI) of 9 November 2018;

- a journal report from mr. Rietberg of 30 January 2019 with production (s);

- a letter with a journal report from Mr Helmantel of 5 March 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Rietberg of 5 March 2019.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 18 March 2019. Parties have appeared, assisted by their lawyers. Mr. B appeared on behalf of the council . Mr. Rietberg also spoke on the basis of a pleading note submitted by her.


3 The facts

3.1
From the now broken relationship between the parents , the minor1 (hereinafter: the minor1) and the minor2 (the minor2) were born in 2007. Until the contested decision, the parents were jointly entrusted with the authority over the minor1 and the minor2. The children live with the mother .


3.2
By order of the court of 8 January 2013, ratified by the court on 23 July 2013, the main residence of the children with the mother was determined and a care arrangement was established whereby the minor1 and the minor2 spend a weekend every fourteen days after school until Monday morning at the father stays and in the other week the Friday from 8:30 am to 7:00 pm, and the holidays and holidays have to be divided by parents in mutual consultation.


3.3
By order of the court of 28 January 2014, it was determined that with regard to the weekends before and after the holidays, the system of intercourse weekends as laid down in the order of 8 January 2013 should be adhered to, the parents were also referred to the Parenthood trajectory. after Separation of C (hereinafter: ONS route).


3.4
The court's decision of 20 January 2015 shows that the parents have not succeeded in making agreements in the context of the ONS trajectory about, among other things, engaging help for both children with a child psychologist . The court subsequently granted substitute consent to the mother for the use of such assistance for both children by the aforementioned order .


3.5
The mother requested the court by petition of 12 June 2017 to temporarily suspend the care scheme (at least the enforceability in stock) and to charge her with the sole authority over the minor1 and the minor2. The father has put forward a defense and requested the court by independent request - enforceable in stock - to determine that:

- the children will now have their principal place of residence with him;

- the mother is entitled to have the children for half a weekend once every two weeks and during the holidays and public holidays;

- the decision of 2 April 2013 is amended and the mother must pay an amount of € 262.99 per child to the father as a contribution to the costs of care and upbringing with effect from the date of change of main residence on a monthly basis ;

- primarily, the father is henceforth entrusted with the sole authority over the children , or in the alternative, the father is granted replacement permission to apply for a passport for the children ;

- the mother is ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings.


3.6
By order of 26 September 2017, the minor1 and the minor2 were placed under the supervision of the GI for the duration of one year.
In (separate) from the disposal of the same date, the court determined that under the leadership of the GI ASAP guided contacts between the father and the children should be made to, and any decision being suspended pending the conduct of the supervision order and the GI and the Council requested that the court be further informed about this and about the course of the interaction .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The parties are in dispute the authority of the minderjarige1 and minderjarige2, the contact arrangement between the father and the children , and depending on the decision on custody, the principal residence of the children , the care arrangements between them and the mother , the contribution in the costs of care and upbringing of the children by the mother and replacement permission to apply for a passport .


4.2
By the contested decision of 17 July 2018, the court terminated - enforceably in stock - the parental authority of the father over the minor1 and the minor2 and determined that from now on the parental authority should accrue only to the mother , rejected the other requests and the costs of proceedings between parties compensated.


4.3
The father appealed against the contested decision with one complaint. This complaint seeks to fully address the dispute on appeal. The father requests the court - practically in stock - primarily to determine the principal place of residence of the minor1 and the minor2 with the father , thereby stipulating that the mother will have the children with him every other week, to amend the decision of 2 April 2013 and determine that the mother as of the date change primary residence monthly amount of € 267.45 per child tochild support must be paid to the father , and henceforth entrust the father with the sole authority over the children , to determine in the alternative that the authority of the father is maintained, the father will be entitled to start the children under the supervision of a an expert to be appointed by the court will be able to see that the old access arrangement will be worked out in phasesof one weekend every fourteen days and half of the school holidays, in which all start and end dates are recorded and conditional, namely if the mother does not comply with the access arrangements , that the children 's main residence is determined by the father , and furthermore the to grant a father's replacement permission to apply for a passport for the benefit of both children and to stipulate that the mother should participate in a psychiatric examination of her capacity as a parent , or take such a decision as the court of appeal deems appropriate.


4.4
The mother puts forward a defense and asks the court to declare the father inadmissible, or to dismiss the appeal as unfounded and to reject the father 's requests . The mother , in turn, has lodged an incidental appeal and requests the court to determine that the father is denied the right to interact with the minor1 and the minor2.


4.5
The father makes a defense on an incidental appeal and he asks the court to declare the mother inadmissible in her request for an incidental appeal, or to reject her request, and to order the mother to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings. and in the first instance, and to appoint an independent expert (forensic psychologist drs. D) for conducting investigations in the context of forensic mediation.


4.6
The Court of Appeal will jointly assess the complaints in principal and incidental appeal.


5 The reasons for the decision
hear minors


5.1
The mother has asked the court of appeal to hear the minor1 and the minor2.

Pursuant to Article 809 (1) of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv), a minor of twelve years or older is given the opportunity to make his opinion known. The second sentence of the article gives the court the authority to also hear younger children , but the court does not see any reason to use this power in this case. The court takes into account in its judgment that hearing by the court will be taxing for the children and will cause (again) unrest. Moreover, on the basis of the documents and the proceedings at the hearing, the Court of Appeal considered itself sufficiently informed to be able to make a decision.

authority


5.2
Pursuant to Section 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may, at the request of the parents who are not married to each other or of one of them, terminate the joint custody if afterwards the circumstances have changed or the decision on the basis of which the joint authority arose incorrect or incomplete data. The judge can then determine that custody of a child belongs to one of them if:

there is an unacceptable risk that the child would become trapped or lost between the parents and that it would not be expected that sufficient improvement would be achieved within the foreseeable future, or b. a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child .


5.3
It is not in dispute that the relationships between the parents have changed after they have been entrusted with the parental authority .


5.4
For joint custody requires that the parents are able to properly joint exercise of authority and that decisions of any importance about their child can participate in consultation, or at least be able to agree on situations around the child (can) in a way that is not burdensome for the child and that does not endanger his (emotional and physical) safety .


5.5
The documents, including the council reports of 13 September 2017 and 28 March 2018, and what was discussed at the session, showed that the relationship between the parents

- since their break in relationship in 2012 - has been seriously disrupted and that constructive consultation between them has hardly taken place since then. The parents are unable to make agreements about the most basic things (such as contact , sports, vacations, etc.). Inadequate communication and disagreements have repeatedly led to conflicts in the past, also in the presence of the children . There have been various care providers in recent yearsauthorities, but both voluntary (ONS, mediation, social work, E) and forced support did not improve the situation. The file shows a pattern in which assistance is started but not utilized and completed. The persistent struggle between the mother and the father has had repercussions on the minor1 and the minor2, both of whom have developed serious loyalty problems in which they show complaint behavior such as concentration problems, anger , fear, stress , abdominal and headache.

The psychologists of E, who have been intensively involved with the minor1 and the minor2 for two years, have found that the attitude and behavior of the parents have completely put the children in the hands .


5.6
The Court of Appeal finds that the parents have conducted different legal proceedings over the past seven years and that, with the help and deployment of assistance, they have failed to properly implement the joint custody . Poor communication is not sufficient in itself to end the joint authority , but in the present case it has been sufficiently established in the opinion of the Court that the bad communication prevents decisions being taken (in time) that are in the interest of the children are. That's how the parents couldno agreement was reached with regard to the proof of identity (ID or passport ) of the children and replacement permission from the judge was needed for psychological examination for the children . Now that it is to be expected to a large extent that, if the joint custody is maintained, the lack of cooperation and mistrust between the parents will continue to create conflicts and tensions for the children in the future , the court is of the opinion that with joint custody of the parents a there is an unacceptable risk for the childrenget stuck or lost between the parents , while - given the course so far - it is not to be expected that sufficient improvement will be achieved in the foreseeable future. Like the court, the court of appeal is of the opinion that joint custody can not be maintained and that the mother - with whom the minor1 and the minor2 live and who has full care of them - should only be charged with custody of the children to stay. The court therefore rejects both the primary and subsidiary request of the father on this point.

other requests


5.7
Given previous decision on custody the Court of Appeal not to the request of the father on the principal residence of the children , the care arrangement with the mother , the contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the children and the permission for the application of a passport . The Court of Appeal also sees no reason to determine that the mother is participating in a psychiatric examination regarding her capacity as a parent . Not to mention that the father 's requestThe Court of Appeal did not substantiate that the documents in the file - and in particular documents from the GI - did not reveal any concerns about the (parenting) capacities of the mother .

access arrangement


5.8
The judge at the request of the parents or one of them, whether or not for a fixed period, a system of exercising the rights of fixed or deny whether or not for some time, the right to association . Under Article 1: 377a paragraph 3, DCC denies the judge the right to association only if: a. Dealing seriously could prejudice the mental or physical development of

the child , or b. the parent must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or c. the child who is twelve years or older , when he interrogates serious objections to interaction

has shown with his parent , or d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.9
A child has the right to associate with his parents and with the person who has a close personal relationship with him.

With regard to the parent who is not charged with custody and the person who has a close personal relationship with the child , this right is guaranteed by Article 8 of the ECHR and Article 1: 377a (1) of the Dutch Civil Code and, with regard to the child , not only by that child. the latter provision, but also by Article 9, paragraph 3, CRC and Article 24, paragraph 3, Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. The judge can only deny the parent charged with custody the right to interact with the child on the grounds listed in article 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code.


5.10
The court finds that the statements of the minor1 and the minor2 make it consistent that they do not want to see the father at this time. Although the children have also indicated that they would like it to be different, they no longer trust him because of bad memories and the father 's negative attitude towards the mother . Various incidents have occurred in the past, including occasions that are accessible to third parties, such as at school during the musical and on the sports field, in which the police have also been involved, that the children experienced as stressful and very unpleasant. The children also thought soit is disappointing, they have indicated, that the father has thrown away important things such as hugs and photos for them. During the supervision of the children , efforts were made to improve parent communication and restore contact between the father and the children . However, the last (supervised) interaction between them, on 31 October 2017, ended prematurely because the children were very upset and did not feel at ease. The letter from the GI of March 19, 2018 shows concerns about the attitude and persistent thinking patterns of the fatherand his inability to look at his share of the situation. According to the GI, the cooperation with the father was very difficult due to many reproaches and complaints on his part.


5.11
the minor1 and the minor2 have not been in contact with the father for some time and at the moment they are doing well (under circumstances), also at school and in sports. The letter from F of 8 October 2018 shows that there is no longer a request for help for the children and that the concentration problems and other complaints have decreased.


5.12
The father feels completely unheard of and believes that the mother works against him and uses the children as a means of combat. The father states that, as a result, the children are referred to as the Parental Alienation Syndrome (PAS), or parental rejection . The Court of Appeal considers that the so-called PAS as a syndrome is not scientifically recognized. Generally recognized is the phenomenon of parental alienation where there is also a difference of opinion about the causes and the approach to this. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the situation concerning the minor1 and the minor2 is so complicatedis that it cannot be said that the children have parental rejection in the form as stated by the father . The loyalty problem and the negative father image of the children seem to have more to do with the family dynamics that have arisen. Anyway, the actual situation is that the children are currently showing great resistance to contact with the father .


5.13
The file clearly shows that the children are trapped between the parents and that the struggle between the parents , which has been going on for years, and the inability of the parents to end that struggle - in the interest of their children - sad outcome had to lead to the fact that (now) no interaction between the father and the children is possible. Although it is paramount that a non-caregiving parent is entitled to an access arrangement with his or her children , an access arrangement will, under the given circumstances, have a negative influence on the overalldevelopment and well-being of the children . A great deal of help has been deployed and attempted to break the stalemate between the parents , but they have not been able to allow the children to have unloaded contact with both parents .

The situation has only become more problematic and tense and the children , after a long period of struggle and emotional burden, benefit from rest, stability and predictability. The certainty about the contact with the father , in this case the lack of contact , will contribute to this. Forced interaction will again cause a lot of tensions and in the opinion of the court will be more harmful in the mutual relationship between the father and the childrenthen that it yields something. Neither have the Court of Appeal found any leads in this regard to assume that the situation has since changed. The court advises the father to try to adopt a different attitude, to better connect with the children and to look to the future; perhaps there will be improvement in the image they have of the father .


5.14
The foregoing means that under current conditions intercourse between the father and the children seriously would cause harm to the mental or physical development of the children , so the exclusion grounds in the above cited article 1: 377 paragraph 3 include a BW application. The requests from the father to establish a visitation , even where the dealings under supervision is concerned, the court will also reject the request and the mother to deny the right of association assign.

expert investigation


5.15
Based on what has been considered above, the court sees no reason to use forensic mediation at this stage and to appoint an expert for that purpose. The court of appeal rejects the father 's request for this. A great deal of assistance has already been deployed and the Court has found that parties are so stuck in their own views and propositions that they no longer have any insight into their own part in the fight, let alone how they could change their own attitude. . Under these circumstances, the Court of Appeal sees (forensic) mediation as a passing station. In addition, such a study , which according to the father also includes the childreninvolved, will again cause unrest for the children , which is not in their interest.

Finally


5.16
The Court of Appeal assumes that the mother will inform the father on the basis of her legal obligation pursuant to Section 1: 377b of the Dutch Civil Code and that she ensures that the children keep a neutral image of their father as much as possible , so that there may be room in the future. arises for the relationship to be restored.

litigation costs


5.17
The Court of Appeal sees no reason to deviate from the usual principle of compensating the costs of proceedings in both instances in cases such as the present, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the court will decide as follows.


7 The decision
The court of appeal, having the principal and the incidental appeal:

confirms the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of July 17, 2018, and additionally having:

the father denies the right to interact with the minor1 and the minor2;

compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

declares this decision (so far) enforceable in stock;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. JDSL Bosch, IM Dölle and ME Allegro, assisted by E. Klijn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 16 April 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 3526