Content indication
Request appointment of special bankruptcy trustee . Conflict of interest between mother and children . 1: 250 BW.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-22
Publication date
2020-01-15
Case number
200,263,487
Procedure
Interim judgment
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.263.487

(case number court of Gelderland 340485)

decision of 22 October 2019

on:

applicant,

without permanent residence or domicile here in the Netherlands, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: HLM Lichteveld in Amsterdam,

and

defendant,

residing at an address known to the court,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: CHJ Willemsen in Nijmegen.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the decisions of the Gelderland District Court, Arnhem, of 5 September 2018 and 9 April 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number. The decision of 9 April 2019 is hereinafter referred to as 'the contested decision'.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the notice of appeal, received on July 9, 2019;

- the statement of defense with regard to the request for appointment of a special liquidator .


2.2
The father 's request for appeal to appoint a guardian ad litem is registered with this court under case number 200.263.487 and is being assessed in the present proceedings. The father 's request for appeal to establish access arrangements is registered under case number 200.263.477 and is being dealt with in a separate procedure.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 1 October 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. The mother is also assisted by A, an interpreter in the English language. B appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board ).


3 The facts

3.1
Parties have had a relationship with each other. They are the parents of:

- the minor1, born in 2008 in C, and

- the minor2, born in 2011 in C,

hereinafter referred to as: the children ,

over whom the mother legally exercises sole authority . The father has recognized the children .


3.2
The father and the children saw each other for the last time at the end of January 2017. In the period before, incidental contact took place between them.


3.3
The father is an application of July 17, 2018 the court Gelderland, Arnhem location requested, as far as possible enforceable:

- determine that it once a month on Saturday or Sunday the children in Arnhem can visit and may be with him for several hours, calling the kids pick up at 11:00 and returns at 16:00 again at the home of the mother ;

- to determine that he is given the opportunity at least twice a week on fixed days and times to be agreed upon to have telephone contact with the children ;

- to stipulate that this access arrangement is extended to an arrangement whereby the children can stay with him for a weekend every three weeks as soon as he has suitable accommodation where he can receive the children ;

- to provide that the mother informs him in writing once every two months about important matters relating to the children and about the development of the children .


3.4
By the decision of 5 September 2018, the court reserved all decisions and asked the council to report and advise on questions about how the children feel about the father and whether there are emotionally safe options for contact recovery for them .


3.5
The Board advised the court in his council report of January 28, 2019 to the father the right to deal with the children to deny, because dealing seriously constitutes harm to the physical or mental development of children . In addition, the council advised to grant the request for an information scheme, in the sense that the mother informs the father in writing (four times a year) about important matters relating to the children and about the development of the children .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision - declared enforceable in stock - the court:

- the father denies the right to interact with the children for the period of one year;

- as a duty of information with regard to the children, it has been established that the mother informs the father in writing four times a year about important matters concerning the children and about their development ;

- rejected the father 's request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem.


4.2
The father's complaint 2 relates to the court's decision to reject his request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem .

The father still requests the court to appoint a special guardian for the children .


4.3
The mother refers to the opinion of the court on this request.


5 reasons for the decision

5.1
Article 1: 250 of the Civil Code (BW) states - briefly stated - that in matters concerning the care and upbringing of the minor the interests of the parents charged with custody or one of them conflict with those the minor , a guardian ad litem is appointed to the minor represent both in and out of court too. In answering the question whether the appointment of a guardian ad litem is appropriate, the interests of the minor are paramount.


5.2
On the basis of the documents submitted and what was discussed at the hearing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that a conflict of interest occurs within the meaning of Article 1: 250 of the Dutch Civil Code with regard to the access arrangement between the mother and the children . The mother shows serious resistance to the father as a person as a result of events that have taken place between the parents in the past. The mother satisfies her obligation to provide information about the children to the father , as stated in the contested decision, but furthermore she wants the father tostays away from her. The Board in its report for council investigation found that the mother can not support and will be the contact between the children and the father , not emotional field and not in the personal guidance . The resulting interests of the mother in the absence of contact between the father and the children conflict with the interests of the children who are entitled to have contact with the father .


5.3
Out by the council - under the board examination - the kids come calls made is indeed revealed that the children have bad memories of the father and that they contact with the father rejected, but the court has insufficient visibility or those memories are real and to what extent the mother 's resistance to the father influences the children 's opinion and perception of the father . In connection with this, the court also has insufficient insight into whether contact recovery between the father and the children is concernedpossible and whether the wishes of the children on this point correspond to what is in their interest.

In view of the above, the Court of Appeal considers it necessary in the interests of the children to appoint a guardian ad litem pursuant to Article 1: 250 of the Dutch Civil Code . Although the court recognizes that the appointment of a guardian ad litem implies that the children again and a new person on the association must engage in dialogue, the court considers this appointment necessary so that the interests of the children as well as possible be highlighted and represented and may be involved by the court in the consideration and decision-making process in this case. If the guardian ad litem concludes that contact / interaction between the childrenand the father is in their interest, the question must then be answered what is necessary for the children and for the parents to achieve this and how (the structure of) the relationship can be designed.


5.4
The father has expressed the wish to appoint an orthopedagogue as a special curator . Drs. D, remedial educationalist / mediator, has been found by the court to act as special guardian in these proceedings . He will be appointed for this purpose by the court and with the job description as described above under legal consideration 5.3.


5.5
The court requests the guardian ad litem at the latest two weeks before the oral hearing in the main action, which is scheduled for January 16, 2020, thus before January 2, 2020, to send a report of its findings to the court. The parents and the council can then respond in writing to that report as will be mentioned below.


6 The decision
The court:

as of today appoints a guardian ad litem as referred to in article 1: 250 BW on minors:

- the minor1, born in 2008 in C, and

- the minor2, born in 2011 in C,

D, orthopedagoog / mediator

a street 1

E

06-00000

and with the job description as described above under legal consideration 5.3;

determines that the clerk of this court will send a copy of this order and a copy of all procedural documents to the special bankruptcy trustee ;

stipulates that (the lawyers of) the parents by return address, telephone and or

inform the guardian ad litem of e-mail details of the parents , so that agreements can be made as soon as possible;

requests the guardian ad litem to report in writing to the court before 2 January 2020 on his findings;

determines that the parents and the council , if necessary, after receiving a copy of the report of the guardian ad litem, can respond to this in writing before January 9, 2020, with a copy of this reaction to the other parent , the council and the guardian ad litem ;

declares this decision enforceable from stock.

This decision was made by mrs. R. Feunekes, IGMT Weijers-van der Marck and KAM van Os-ten Have, assisted by the clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on October 22, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 8792