Content indication
Official report of oral judgment. The court asks the board examination to be carried to the question of access arrangements (longer-term) best suits the interests and needs of the minor and the extent to which the joint exercise of parental authority in the interest of the minor is .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-08-29
Publication date
2019-10-01
Case number
200.252.369 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 8614
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

official report of the decision as referred to in Article 30p of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv)

PROCESS-VERBAAL of the hearing at the closed doors of the multiple family room of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal on 29 August 2019, where nowadays were: J. Kok, chairman, GW Brands-Bottema and WK van Duren, members van de hof, assisted by J. van den Wildenberg as clerk.

Treatment of the case with case number 200.252.369 / 01 of:

the man ,
living at home,

applicant in principal appeal,

defendant in an incidental appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: DEJ Maes in Haarlem, the Netherlands,

and

the woman ,
living at home,

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in an incidental appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: IS Kuijken in Haarlem.

The other interested party is the minor son (hereafter referred to as: the minor ).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .

Appeared are:

- the man, assisted by his lawyer;

- the woman assisted by her lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. D. van Dijk.

The case was discussed today at the hearing. All parties have appeared there.

The court then made the following decision through the chairman.

The grounds
1. The minor was born from the now broken relationship between the parties, to be born in 2012. The woman only exercises authority over the minor . the minor lives with the woman. Paternity of the man was legally established by order of 18 March 2015 .

2. By order of 10 April 2015, the minor was placed under supervision for the duration of one year. The supervision order has not been extended afterwards.

3 By (interim) decision of 24 May 2017 a temporary access arrangement has been established, which means that the minor stays with the man every Wednesday from 12.30 pm to 7 pm and one weekend from Friday noon to Sunday 7 pm and the other weekend from 12 noon hour to Sunday morning 9 am. In addition, the minor will be staying with the man during the summer holiday 2017 from Friday 4 August from 12 noon to Sunday 20 August at 7 pm. In addition, the Council has been requested to conduct an investigation with regard to interaction and authority and the decision has been made regarding the access arrangement/ distribution of care and upbringing duties and authority pro forma held until 1 September 2017.

4. By (interim) decision of 11 April 2018 a temporary access arrangement was again established, which means that the minor stays with the man once every fourteen days from Wednesday after school to Thursday, in the preceding weekend from Friday after school to Monday to school and the following weekend from Sunday morning 9 am to Monday to school. In addition, the minor will stay with the man during the first week of the May 2018 holiday, half of the multi-week holidays and during half of the other holidays and holidays based on 50/50. Furthermore, it is the decision about the access arrangement and the authorityheld pro forma until 10 October 2018, with the request that the parties' lawyers inform the court in writing no later than 3 October 2018 about the progress of "Parenthood Remains" and the temporary access arrangements and the consequences to be attached thereto.

5. The man lodged an appeal on 7 January 2019 against the order of the Noord-Holland District Court, location Haarlem, with reference C / 15/253865 / FA RK 17-260 of 10 October 2018. The woman appealed on 20 February 2019 an incidental appeal was lodged against the aforementioned decision of 10 October 2018. That decision establishes the following access arrangements : the minor stays with the man once every fourteen days from Wednesday after school to Thursday, in the preceding weekend of Friday after school to Monday to school and the following weekend from Sunday morning 9 am to Monday to school. In addition, the minor stays half of the multi-week vacations for men and half of the other holidays and vacations for men. The independent request of the husband to determine that he and the wife are jointly charged with parental authority over the minor has also been rejected .

6. The court considers as follows. The Court of Appeal does not consider itself sufficiently informed to decide on the husband's request to jointly charge him and the wife with custody of the minor and on the requests from both parties with regard to the interpretation of the access arrangements . The court will therefore request the council to expand the protection investigation that has already been planned . This concerns, first, the question of which access arrangement (for the longer term) best fits the interests and needs of the minor . Secondly, the council is requested to investigateto ascertain to what extent exercising joint parental authority is in the best interests of the minor . Pending the report with the advice of the council , the court will hold the case for a period of four months.

Until a final decision has been taken, the Court of Appeal adopts a temporary access arrangement , namely the access arrangement agreed by the parties after the contested decision . This means that the minor stays with the man every Wednesday after school until Thursday to school, as well as to school once every fourteen days from Friday after school to Monday. This means that the Court of Appeal will suspend the operation of the contested decision, insofar as it is subject to the judgment of the Court of Appeal (now that the holiday and public holidays regulation set out in the contested decision is not affected), until the appeal will be final. decided.

7. For the sake of completeness, the Court of Appeal considers that it is desirable that there is (for the time being) no direct contact between parties in order to relieve the minor as much as possible, unless this is strictly necessary for arranging practical matters concerning interaction .

8. This leads to the following decision.

The decision
The court:

in principal and incidental appeal

before deciding further:

calls on the Council to investigate which access arrangements (for the longer term) best suit the interests and needs of the minor and the extent to which the joint exercise of parental authority is in the best interests of the minor ;

requests the Council to submit a written report on the results of this investigation to the Court of Appeal before 5 January 2020 and will continue to process it pro forma until that date;

suspends the operation of the order of the Noord-Holland District Court, location Haarlem, with reference C / 15/253865 / FA RK 17-260 of 10 October 2018, insofar as subject to the judgment of the Court of Appeal, until the appeal is made will be definitively decided;

establishes the following temporary access arrangements until further decisions are taken :

the minor stays with the man every Wednesday after school until Thursday to school, as well as to school once every fourteen days from Friday after school to Monday;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

recommends the convocation of parties, their lawyers and the council on a date to be determined;

keeps every further decision.

The chairman announced that the minutes of this oral judgment will be provided to the parties within fourteen days of the present. The chairman closes the session.

Of which this official report has been drawn up that has been signed by the chairman and the clerk in accordance with article 30p paragraph 4 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.

The clerk, the chairman.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3458