Content indication
(Urgent) authorizations for placement child placement rightfully granted. Five children of the mother are already under guardianship of the GI. Father of the sixth child is a safety risk for child and assistance . Mother cannot resist the father and seeks contact with him.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-09-26
Publication date
2019-10-02
Case number
200.263.233 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.263.233 / 01 (case number court North Netherlands C / 18/191624 / JE RK 19/280)
decision of 26 September 2019
on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant on appeal, hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: KB Spoelstra in Groningen, the Netherlands,

and

the certified institution: William Schrikker Foundation for Youth Protection & Youth Probation ,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal, hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

1 The proceedings at first instance
The Court of Appeal refers to the oral judgment - which was written in writing the same day - of the juvenile court in the Northern Netherlands court, location Groningen, of 26 April 2019, as well as to the order of 8 May 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on July 15, 2019; - the statement of defense of the GI with production (s); - a journal report from mr. Spoelstra of 31 July 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 26 August 2019. Her lawyer Spoelstra, LL.M., appeared on behalf of the mother . The GI was represented by two employees of the National Expertise Team for Youth Protection (LET JB ).

3 The facts

3.1
The mother exercises parental authority over the minor the minor , born in 2017 (hereafter: the minor ). the minor has been recognized by Mr B (hereinafter: the father ).


3.2
By decision of 10 October 2017, the then still unborn minor was placed under the supervision of the GI by the juvenile court until 10 October 2018, after the provisional supervision was pronounced with effect from 28 September 2017.
3.3
By order of 9 October 2018, the juvenile court judge extended the care of the minor to 10 October 2019.


3.4
By the contested decision of 26 April 2019, the child judge , after an oral request from the GI followed by a petition with appendices on 26 April 2019, granted a so-called urgent authorization for placement of the minor in a foster care facility for a period of four weeks, and the remainder of the decision. The decision has been declared enforceable from stock.


3.5
By the contested decision of 8 May 2019, the juvenile court also granted the remainder of the GI 's request and therefore granted authorization to place the minor out of home in a foster care facility until 10 October 2019. This decision has also been declared enforceable.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The mother requests the court to annul the aforementioned decisions of the juvenile court of April 26, 2019 and May 8, 2019 and, again, doing justice, to reject the GI 's requests .


4.2
The GI requests the mother to be declared inadmissible or to reject her request and to ratify the contested decision.

5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Article 1: 265b, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), the juvenile court may , at its request, authorize the minor during the day and day of the certified institution , referred to in Article 1.1 of the Youth Act, which is charged with the execution of the supervision order to place them out of the house overnight if this is necessary in the interest of the care and upbringing of the minor or to examine their mental or physical condition.
5.2
Pursuant to Article 800 (3) of the Code of Civil Procedure, the authorization for out-of- home placement can only be given immediately if the treatment cannot be awaited without immediate and serious danger to the minor . Such urgent authorization loses its power after two weeks, unless the interested parties have been given the opportunity to express their opinion within this period.
5.3
From the available data it appears that the out-of- home placement must be seen against the background that there were already major concerns about the parenting skills of both parents before the birth and out-of- home placement of the minor . The other five children of the mother , of which B is not the father , are under the guardianship of the GI. Even before the birth of the minor, the parents were defensively seeking help and there is a contact ban against the fatherpronounced in connection with violence against the mother . The father is known for his aggressive / negative attitude and drug use and has been in detention. He is a member of an anti-youth care network that wants to get children from foster families to bring them back to their parents . The father has threatened a youth care worker with death and has been sentenced for it. The mother was on November 15, 2017 on the father's secret birth place of the minor and then with minor to live in a mother-child facility of C. The contacts with the father have been taken up by the National Expertise Team Youth Protection , to protect the mother as much as possible from this. In violation of the security arrangements (and the restraining of the father against the mother ) is the mother but on April 25, 2018 contacted the father of the minor and agreed with him. With a view to the safety of the minor, the GI then immediately authorizesrelocation placement requested.
5.4
The mother has formulated one complaint in the letter of appeal that, in the decisions of 26 April 2019 and 8 May 2019, the juvenile court granted authorizations for (urgent) removal of the minor . In summary, the mother disputes the minor 's safety concerns .
5.5
The complaint fails. In view of the documents and the proceedings at the hearing, the court can, after its own investigation, fully agree with the contested decisions of the juvenile court . The Court of Appeal takes over the considerations of the juvenile court judge and makes them his own. There are major concerns about the guidance ability of the mother and her parenting skills and her ability the safety for minors to ensure. In addition, the Court considers that the mother by not appearing in court to the court may remember her questioning that already therefore justifiedserious concerns at the GI and the court about the safety of the minor at the mother have not been resolved. In contrast, it has since become clear that the mother has had much longer and more intensive contact with the father than was previously assumed. The father also went with the mother to the conversation that the GI had with the mother on 10 July 2019. The mother is currently unable to resist the father , who, as a security risk to theminor , but also for others. In addition, it was found that the mother stepped out of contact with the GI, her lawyer and D.
5.6
The aforementioned grounds for the child protection measures in question have therefore been met. In the opinion of the court, it is now up to the GI to obtain clarity in the short term about the perspective of the minor .


6 The conclusion
The foregoing leads to the ratification of the contested oral decision and decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the contested decisions of 26 April 2019 and 8 May 2019 of the children's judge in the Noord-Nederland District Court, location Groningen, of which an appeal is made;

rejects what has been requested more or differently.
This decision was made by mrs. MAF Holtvluwer-Veenstra, EBEM Rikaart-Gerard and C. Koopman and was publicly pronounced on 26 September 2019 in the presence of the clerk.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 7912