Content indication
Participation in a criminal organization and co-perpetrators of bottle-pullers have been proven proven. Reflections on the claims of the injured parties (affected suppliers). In view of the intensity of the cooperation at the joint and bottle-bottled joints, the Court of Appeal assumes group liability with regard to damage suffered by suppliers. This is followed by reflections on the direct link between participation in a criminal organization and damage suffered by injured parties, resulting in the total or partial allocation of a large number of claims and the imposition of the compensation measure. Consideration of the legal basis for imposing the additional punishment for deprivation of rights (articles 31 and 339 Penal Code),
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-05
Publication date
2019-04-09
Case number
2300463816
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
criminal law department

public prosecutor's office number: 23-004638-16

Date of judgment: April 5, 2019

Contradiction

Judgment of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal pointed to the appeal, brought against the judgment of the Amsterdam Court of December 1, 2016 in the criminal case under public prosecutor's office 13-845075-14 against

suspect 5,

born at place of birth on date of birth 1955,

address: address of suspect 5.

Investigation of the case

This judgment is given following the investigation hearing on appeal of February 23, 2018, March 7, 2018, February 19, 2019, February 20, 2019, February 21, 2019, February 22, 2019, February 25, 2019, February 28, 2019, March 4, 2019 , 12 March 2019, 22 March 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422, second paragraph, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, following the investigation at the hearing at first instance.

An appeal has been lodged on behalf of the suspect against the aforementioned judgment.

The Court of Appeal has taken note of the advocate general's claim and of what has been put forward by and on behalf of the accused.

Indictment

The accused has been charged with:


1
he at one or more times in or around the period from 1 January 2011 to 4 November 2014 in Amsterdam and / or Alkmaar and / or Schagen and / or Heiloo and / or Tuitjenhorn, municipality of Schagen and / or Stompetoren, municipality of Alkmaar and / or Schermerhorn, municipality of Alkmaar and / or Schoorl, municipality of Bergen (NH) and / or Beverwijk and / or Hoofddorp, municipality of Haarlemmermeer and / or Nieuw-Vennep, municipality of Haarlemmermeer and / or Broek op Langedijk, municipality of Langedijk, at least in Netherlands, has participated in one or more organization (s),

namely (a) joint venture (s) of suspect and / or suspect 1 and / or suspect 3 and / or suspect 2 and / or suspect 4 and / or suspect 7 and / or suspect 13 and / or one or more other natural persons ,

in which this organization (s) has (always) made use of (an) enterprise (s) and / or the name of (an) enterprise (s), namely

case 1 (case 1) and / or case 2 (case 2) and / or case 5 (case 5) and / or case 6 (case 6) and / or case 8 (case 8) and / or case 9 (case 9 ) and / or case 10 (case 10) and / or case 12 (case 12) and / or case 13 (case 13) and / or case 14 (case 14) and / or case 15 (case 15) and / or case 16 (case 16) and / or case 17 (case 17) and / or case 18 (case 18)

consisting of the involvement of suspect from participation acts with regard to the companies mentioned below , namely

case 6 (case 6) and / or case 8 (case 8) and / or case 10 (case 10) and / or case 17 (case 17) and / or case 18 (case 18),

which organization (s) (each time) had the intention of committing crimes, namely committing bankruptcy fraud (Articles 340 to 344 and Article 194 of the Criminal Code ) and / or embezzlement (Article 321 of the Criminal Code ) and / or fraud (Article 326 Penal Code ) and / or bottle-puller (Article 326a Penal Code ) and / or forgery (Article 225 Penal Code ) and / or (custom) money laundering (Article 420bis and Article 420ter Criminal Code) ) and / or (customary) healing (Articles 416 and 417 Penal Code );


2
in or around the period from 27 August 2014 to 4 November 2014 in the municipality of Alkmaar, at least in the Netherlands, together and in association with another or others, and / or alone, has made a profession or habit of the purchase of goods (each time) with the intention of insuring themselves and / or (a) other (s) about those goods without full payment, after all, the suspect and / or his co-perpetrator (s), with the aforementioned intent, the goods listed on the annex attached to this summons, in any case any property (s) purchased from the named (legal) person (s), namely:

- supplier 1 in Tiel (8-G-03) and / or

- supplier 2 in Barendrecht (8-G-04) and / or

- supplier 3 in Alkmaar (8-G-04) and / or

- supplier 4 in Gorredijk (8-G-06) and / or

- supplier 5 in Deventer (8-G-07) and / or

- supplier 6 in Alphen aan den Rijn (8-G-08) and / or

- supplier 7 in Duiven (8-G-11) and / or

- supplier 8 in Hoofddorp (8-G-12) and / or

- supplier 9 in Uddel (8-G-13) and / or

- supplier 10 in Hoofddorp (8-G-14) and / or

- supplier 11 in Bergen op Zoom (8-G-15) and / or

- supplier 12 in Lutten (8-G-16) and / or

- supplier 13 in Alkmaar (8-G-17) and / or

- supplier 14 in Oldenzaal (8-G-18) and / or

- supplier 15 in Winterswijk (8-G-19) and / or

- supplier 16 in Soest (8-G-20) and / or

- supplier 17 in Schijndel (8-G-21) and / or

- supplier 18 in Wormerveer (8-G-22) and / or

- supplier 19 in Borne (8-G-23) and / or

- supplier 20 in Heijningen (8-G-24) and / or

- supplier 21 in Zoetermeer (8-G-25) and / or

- supplier 22 in Amsterdam (8-G-26) and / or

- supplier 23 in Roosendaal and / or supplier 23 in Idar-Oberstein (Dld) (8-G-27) and / or

- supplier 24 in Alkmaar (8-G-28) and / or

- supplier 25 in Hengelo (O) (8-G-29) and / or

- supplier 26 in Vlaardingen (8-G-30) and / or

- supplier 27 in Zwaagdijk-Oost (8-G-33).

Insofar as language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, the court will read them in an improved way. The suspect is therefore not harmed in the defense.

Verdict whose appeal

The judgment for which an appeal will be set aside, because the court comes to different decisions than the court.

Evidence considerations

Fact 1

Under 1, the suspect was charged with participation in a criminal organization. The aim of the organization would have been, among other things, bottle-pulling and bankruptcy fraud. The members of the organization were alleged to have worked as a way of operating a company for several months in which goods were purchased on a large scale. After that usually a bankruptcy followed and the recovery options of creditors were deliberately made more difficult.

The Advocate General has requested that the Court of Appeal declare this fact proven.

The counselor has requested an acquittal. In essence, it argued that the incriminating statements made by suspect 1 and suspect 2, made on various occasions, must be regarded as unreliable and therefore cannot be used as evidence. The incriminating statement made by suspect 9, filed with the FIOD on January 14, 2015, was made under pressure from fellow suspects and cannot be used for evidence on that basis either.

The court considers as follows.

suspect 1

The co-suspect suspect 1 declared incriminating about those involved in the various companies, including the suspect.

suspect 1, after not having explained much at first, prepared a written statement on 21 January 2016 that is in the file. In it he stated that he initially started to participate in the management of the first companies without criminal intentions, but that this was later changed, under the influence of the defendant 2. Soon a practice had arisen of companies with a short life cycle in which the core of business operations consisted of ordering goods without paying for them. Suspect 1 briefly described the course of events per company. He has charged himself and the other parties involved. As a witness, heard by the examining magistrate on 30 June 2016, suspect 1 stated further. He said that all involved were aware of the fact that they were so-called "thuds". This also applies to the suspect; he had known what the approach was for years. As a motive for giving “opening of cases”, suspect 1 mentions the fact that the other suspects tried to blame him.

The defense pointed to the eavesdropping and recorded telephone conversations between suspect 1 and his father suspect 3, during the first months that suspect 1 was detained. The Court of Appeal considers as follows.

In these conversations, the current investigation is apparently being discussed. Subjects involved in the research are discussed, whether or not based on a nickname. More specifically, it concerns the interrogations that will be taken from them and the expected content of their statements. From the conversations it can be deduced that suspect 1 tries to take control and says what each of them must explain, apparently with the aim of limiting the damage for him, suspect 1. To that end it is agreed that his father , among otherssome of them have visited or are going to visit. Suspect 1 speaks about the desired content of their statements in terms such that those involved "just have to be honest" and "just have to tell the truth". And with regard to suspect 2, it appears that suspect 1 wants him to "keep his mouth shut".

From the content of the conversations it can further be concluded that person F, the partner of suspect 1, and suspect 3 each visit the suspect suspect 4 once. This in an attempt to induce suspect 2 to declare that he had nothing to do with it and does not know what the role of suspect 1 was.

The suspect was also discussed in the discussions referred to. It is referred to as "Lampshade". From telephone conversations between suspect 1 and his partner person F of 28 November 2014, it can be concluded that in the perception of suspect 1, the suspect in his statements charges others and "cleans his own lane." It could be concluded from the interview that this could turn against the suspect if the co-suspect was to declare suspect 4 incriminating about the suspect. On November 15, 2014, suspect 1 makes a similar remark about the suspect, namely that "first name suspect 5 will blame other people for things he did". On December 5, 2014, suspect 1 told person F that co-suspect suspect 10 should say "just fair" "that it was Lampekap".

On January 4, 2015, suspect 1 called the suspect. In addition, suspect 1 said, among other things: "(...) it won't take long for us, friend, with your lies" and "(...) it is very good, we know everything" and "I wish you a lot get well soon". This was experienced by the suspect as threatening , or at least intimidating.

In retrospect, based on the statements of suspect 1 himself but also those of suspect 2, it is evident that the honesty and truth that suspect 1 spoke about in these conversations did not have the meaning they have in the usual language. suspect 1 wanted to manipulate those involved (including the suspect) and keep control over what would be declared by co-suspects for the benefit of his interests in his own criminal case.

In this course of action, however, there is insufficient ground to assume that the statements made later by suspect 1 are unreliable and cannot be used for the evidence. Viewed in the light of his later statements, in which he also entrusts himself, it can be concluded that the truthfulness of what was shared in the tap conversations is very low.

More specifically with regard to the suspect, it is clear from the whole of the conversations that suspect 1 did not want the suspect to have substantively explained the interrogations as taken in November and December 2014 during his interrogations (to the court) has spoken to others and has not burdened himself. The investigation is then still in a phase in which the key players in the case are questioned by the FIOD, which means that they can mutually affect their litigation position. In that phase, suspect 1 himself had declared little, at least not incriminating for himself.

Moreover, it is clear that suspect 1 spoke with his father in a context that he considered confidential. It does not concern statements made which he later fully or partially returned to. Also in this respect there is no reason to conclude that the telephone conversations between suspect 1 on the one hand and his father and partner on the other disqualify his later statements as useful means of proof. In addition, the wish expressed by the accused 1 that the accused 2 should keep his mouth shut fits in with the context of the confessional statements made later by the accused 2 in which the accused 1 is also charged.

The statements of suspect 1 are furthermore confirmed in the file. In general, the working method followed in the various companies is confirmed in the statements of the defendant 2. The declarations of defendant 1 in which he claims to be open about matters also fit in with many relevant details, in the statements or declarations of injured suppliers and the statements made by the parties involved in the various bankruptcies receivershave been taken. Anchoring is also provided by numerous documents in the file showing the method described by the defendant 1 in which invoices had to give a distorted picture of the course of affairs when goods are delivered to customers. Many notes contain the comment that one part is paid in cash and another part will be paid by bank. According to suspect 1, the latter did not take place.

With regard to the suspect's role, the statements of suspect 1 relate in particular to his role in the companies case 6 (case 6), case 8 (case 8), case 10 (case 10) and case 18 (case 18 ). The counselor has stated that the statements of suspect 1 are vague and general. In any case, this cannot be argued with success as far as these four companies are concerned. To this end, the court of appeal refers to the evidence, in particular the statement of suspect 1 of 30 June 2016, made to the examining magistrate, who did not include the counselor in her critical considerations during the plea.

On the basis of all of the foregoing, the conclusion must be that the statements of suspect 1, even where they are burdensome for the suspect, can be used for the evidence. The statements of the suspect himself also offer no clues to assume that the suspect 1, other than the shifting of responsibility and guilt, has or may have had to charge the suspect on incorrect grounds.

suspect 2

The co-suspect suspect 2 also declared incriminating about the suspect. In particular in his statements made to the FIOD on 1 April 2015 and 3 July 2015, he said that the suspect had been aware of the fraudulent intent of some companies and of his intentions at the bottle trader in association. He referred to case 6, case 8 and case 18.

At the hearing on appeal, suspect 2, heard as a witness, expressed himself less explicitly. In general, it turned out that he no longer had too detailed memories of the state of affairs in the bottle-puller period. He did, however, state that his statements to the FIOD about the roles of co-suspects, including those of the suspect, in the various companies were correct.

The Court of Appeal considered that the statements made by Defendant 2 during the criminal investigation are detailed, including with regard to the false names used by the Defendant. These are confirmed in statements by witnesses and co-suspects. The use of the name name E in the context of case 6 has been confirmed by the witness H. The use of the name name D during the exploitation of case 8 has also been acknowledged by the suspect himself. With regard to the name name E, the suspect stated that he had issued business cards with that name on it.

The counselor has stated that the FIOD statements of suspect 2 are general in nature and unreliable, albeit in a little articulated way. In view of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal does not agree with the valuation of these statements. The Court of Appeal considers this to be useful for the evidence.

suspect 9

A co-suspect who also declared incriminating about the involvement of the suspect is suspect 9. He has taken goods from case 8 several times. On January 14, 2015, Defendant 9 stated to the FIOD reporters that he had done business with the “bare” (referred to as the Defendant) in case 8 and had negotiated prices with him. He also dealt with him. At the hearing on appeal on 19 February 2019, heard as a witness, suspect 9 returned to this. He stated that the FIOD officials incorrectly accounted for how often he had been in contact with the suspect. The witness is said to have been twice, but the interrogation report wrongly included ten to twenty times.

The Court of Appeal does not consider the withdrawal movement of the witness suspect 9 at the hearing on appeal to be credible. He stated, contrary to the course of events as it appears from the official report, that the hearing took six hours and that this also had an influence on the content of the statement he made. Furthermore, he was initially unable to explain his motives for being incriminating about the suspect.

After an interruption in which the witness consulted with his lawyer, he stated that he had been instructed by suspect 3. The witness did not seize the opportunity (such as during the hearing before the examining magistrate on 1 September 2015 where he invoked his right of non-disclosure) nor created to return to this.

Moreover, on the questions of the court, the witness was unable to explain further about the nature and content of the instructions of the accused 3. These would have meant that suspect 1 had to be kept out of the picture. However, the witness did not do that when he was heard by the FIOD. Considering the foregoing in conjunction, it leads to the conclusion that there are no impediments to the assumption that Defendant 9 made to the FIOD on January 14, 2015.

Reasonable facts and circumstances

On behalf of the suspect, it was argued that he had no knowledge of the fraudulent intent of the companies in which he carried out work with suspect 1 and / or suspect 2, nor of the committed bottle trafficking. The Court of Appeal reaches a different conclusion based on the relevant content of the statements of suspect 1, suspect 2 and suspect 9. For this, reference is made to the appendix in which the evidence used is included. suspect 1 and suspect 2 both stated that the suspect was charged with purchasing in various companies. He also knew that it was the intention not to pay. Although the statement of suspect 9 does not relate to the purchase of goods without paying for them, it places the suspect in the heart of the organization of case 8. Suspect 9 often bought goods from or through the suspect. These were, according to the statements of suspect 2 and suspect 1, obtained by bottle-pulling.

In case 8 the suspect used the false name name D. He explained that himself. He is recognized by several witnesses, working for companies that supplied goods without being paid, from a photograph as the man who called himself name D. Suspect 2 also used a false name. The suspect was aware of this, he stated. He also assumed that another employee was working at case 8 who used a false name, namely name F. The evidence shows that this was the co-suspect 6.

The Court of Appeal also considers the content of a telephone group conversation in which the suspect and a person, named person I, of 6 September 2013 participated, to be of evidence. This conversation was recorded by the irrevocably convicted co-suspect 13. In this interview, the suspect said, among other things, that suspect 1 does nothing but "buy up companies, milk them out and have them declared bankrupt with straw men on it". This is a very direct indicationof the suspect's knowledge of the intentions with the companies for which he performed work. This means that the statement made by the suspect at the hearing on appeal that he had repeatedly asked suspect 1 for payslips and a formalization of the employment relationship was completely unbelievable. Moreover, the latter is at odds with the statements made by the suspect at the FIOD, including on 2 December 2014, in which he stated that he was not employed in case 8 and was happy with every amount of money that was credited to him. He made similar comments about his relationship with case 6 in his statement of 11 November 2014.

In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the foregoing does not permit any other conclusion than that the suspect was aware of the bottle-puller, committed in the context of the business operations of the companies mentioned by the co-suspects involved . These were exploited during part of the period included in the indictment.

The next question is whether the charged participation in a criminal organization has been established.

Structure and sustainability

The evidence used shows that an organization with a certain structure and sustainability has existed. This structure is expressed in the relationships that various people have had with each other, whereby various activities with a criminal orientation have been carried out. This involved a certain division of roles, which, although varied within a bandwidth, generally showed continuity. The activities also show a repeating pattern.

The sustainability and structure are given with the above. For a period of considerable duration, the persons named in the statement of evidence have operated in a stable form of cooperation.

Purpose of the organization

The objective of the organization has unmistakably consisted of bottle pulling and bankruptcy fraud. The participants had a common orientation on these points.

The suspect as a participant

Finally, the suspect's participation in the organization. Participation in an organization as referred to in Article 140 of the Penal Code can only exist if two requirements are met:

1) the suspect is part of a partnership with a sustainable or structured character

and

2) the suspect has a share in, or supports, conduct aimed at or directly related to the realization of the purpose referred to in those articles.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the suspect's contribution has been substantial and can therefore be regarded as participation within the meaning of Article 140 of the Dutch Criminal Code. Spread over a substantial part of the charged foster periodshows activities of the suspect that can be regarded as a relevant and continuous contribution to the cooperation and to the realization of the objective. For a long period of more than a year, he has always ordered goods, had them delivered and then sold them again. He did the latter especially in case 8 in contact with the buyer suspect 9. At the company Case 6, the suspect purchased goods and then sold them in the store. The suspect also did the graphic work and he made websites. On the website of case 8 there were inaccuracies, such as photos of buses with the name of the company. This was photoshopped. Through these activities the defendant became the goal of the organization, making money through the sale of goods whose suppliers are not paid for.

In addition, the method used in the incorporation and management of the companies achieved the objective that suppliers were severely impeded in their attempts to have their invoices settled. However, the Court of Appeal does not consider that the suspect participated in the organization for the entire period included in the indictment. A shorter period than charged will be proven proven. This means that the defenses seeking acquittal of the charges under 1 are rejected to that extent.

Fact 2

Prior to the evaluation of the evidence presented, the court considers the following with regard to the nature of the charged offense. Bottle puller is characterized in particular by two components. Firstly, it concerns a multitude of cases of purchasing goods or purchasing services. Secondly, the crime is constituted by the absence of payment.

The accused is accused of having committed this crime. Compassion is when the suspect has worked closely, fully and consciously with others. There must be intent on the offense committed in association and on cooperation. The suspect does not have to have performed every charged act. Nor is it required that he himself has complied with all elements of the offense.

This means that the suspect does not have to be directly involved in every purchase or purchase. In the present case, the indictment concerning fact 2 contains a list of 27 cases of purchase of goods that were ultimately not paid in the context of the business operations of case 8. The court of appeal must assess whether evidence is available for each of these cases. The next step is to assess whether the suspect's contribution has been such that, even if it is not certain that he was directly involved in every order or delivery, he can be regarded as co-perpetrator of the bottle-pulling company in the size as charged.

Keep the evidence, as mentioned regarding count 1 has already been discussed, that the defendant knew that some of his co-defendants each companies have set up under which goods were purchased without payment therefor. He cooperated with them in a manner as evidenced by the evidence used. This shows his science of and intention to commit the bottle-making business.

The evidence (including the statements of the suspect himself) also shows that the suspect was one of the persons who was specifically charged with the purchase of goods for case 8. He has been directly involved with various deliveries mentioned in the indictment for which no payment has been made. For example, the suspect has acknowledged that he has maintained contacts with supplier 2 in Barendrecht, supplier 8 in Hoofddorp, supplier 17 in Schijndel, supplier 1 in Tiel, supplier 11 in Bergen op Zoom and supplier 25 in Hengelo. In a general sense, the suspect stated that he was dealing with the request for quotations and that he gave these to suspect 1 upon receipt. He used the name name D. The means of proof also mean that various others mentioned in the indictmententrepreneurs , apart from the aforementioned, had contact with name D and delivered goods after which payment was not received.

In addition, the suspect knew that some of his co-suspects were purchasing goods with similar intentions. He also knew that fake names were used. He knew that suspect 2 called himself name C. As mentioned above, he assumed that the person who called himself name F also had a different name. This has significance in the key to the evidence for the bottle factory.

The foregoing leads to the conclusion that the suspect was co-perpetrator of the bottle-puller in the size as charged under 2. The defenses seeking acquittal of this fact are rejected.

Proof of declaration

The Court of Appeal considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the accused committed the charges under 1 and 2, on the understanding that:


1
he participated in an organization in the Netherlands from 1 July 2013 to 4 November 2014,

namely a partnership of suspects and suspects 1 and suspects 3 and suspects 2 and suspects 4 and suspects 7,

whereby this organization has always used a company , namely

Case 6 and Case 8 and Case 10 and Case 18,

consisting of the involvement of suspect from participation acts with regard to the companies mentioned below , namely

Case 6 and Case 8 and Case 10 and Case 18,

which organization had the intention of committing crimes, namely bankruptcy fraud and bottle-tracing;


2
in the period from 27 August 2014 up to and including 4 November 2014 in the Netherlands, together and in association with others, he has made a habit of purchasing goods with the intention of securing access to those goods and others without payment in full After all, the defendant and his co-perpetrators, each with the aforementioned purpose, purchased the goods listed on the annex attached to this judgment from the legal persons to be named, namely:

- supplier 1 in Tiel and

- supplier 2 in Barendrecht and

- supplier 3 in Alkmaar and

- supplier 4 in Gorredijk and

- supplier 5 in Deventer and

- supplier 6 in Alphen aan den Rijn and

- supplier 7 in Duiven and

- supplier 8 in Hoofddorp and

- supplier 9 in Uddel and

- supplier 10 in Hoofddorp and

- supplier 11 in Bergen op Zoom and

- supplier 12 in Lutten and

- supplier 13 in Alkmaar and

- supplier 14 in Oldenzaal and

- supplier 15 in Winterswijk and

- supplier 16 in Soest and

- supplier 17 in Schijndel and

- supplier 18 in Wormerveer and

- supplier 19 in Borne and

- supplier 20 in Heijningen and

- supplier 21 in Zoetermeer and

- supplier 22 in Amsterdam and

- supplier 23 in Roosendaal and supplier 23 in Idar-Oberstein (Germany) and

- supplier 24 in Alkmaar and

- supplier 25 in Hengelo (O) and

- supplier 26 in Vlaardingen and

- supplier 27 in Zwaagdijk-Oost.

What has been charged more or differently under 1 and 2 has not been proven. The suspect must be acquitted of this.

The Court of Appeal bases its conviction that the accused committed the proven statement on the facts and circumstances contained in the means of proof, as they are included in the annex to this judgment.

Punishability of the proven

No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the punishability of the proven proven under 1 and 2, so that this is punishable.

The certified under 1 provides:

participation in an organization for the purpose of committing crimes.

The certified proven under 2 yields:

making a habit of buying goods for the purpose of securing access to those goods for another person or without payment in full.

Punishability of the suspect

No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the suspect's punishability with regard to the evidence proven under 1 and 2, so that the suspect is punishable.

Imposition of penalties

The Amsterdam District Court sentenced the accused for the proven first instance under 1 and 2 to a prison sentence of 16 months with deduction of custody, of which 4 months conditionally, with a probationary period of 3 years. Furthermore, decisions have been taken regarding the seized objects and claims of the injured parties, as further detailed in the judgment for which an appeal has been described.

The Advocate General has requested that the accused for the charges under 1 and 2 be sentenced to a prison term of 18 months, of which 3 months conditional, with a probationary period of 3 years.

On appeal, the Court of Appeal determined the penalties to be imposed on the basis of the seriousness of the facts and the circumstances in which they were committed and in view of the person of the suspect. The Court of Appeal in particular took the following into consideration.

The suspect has been part of a criminal organization that has been involved for a period of approximately one and a half years in the systematic conduct of bottle-pulling in an organized context. The suspect and his co-perpetrators used specially established companies for this purpose . In some cases, a company with a good reputation had been in existence for some time.

The organization turned out to be able to present these companies to the outside world in a very short time as successful, bona fide companies. To this end, business premises were taken into use, which were subsequently equipped for both equipment and personnel. The digital infrastructure was also provided, while the financial side was also covered by the preparation of false annual accounts filed with the Chamber of Commerce. The suspect and his co-perpetrators often have unsuspecting entrepreneurs using false namesapproached in order to order goods on a very large scale, often for tens of thousands of euros at the same time. In addition, the suspect and his co-perpetrators did not hesitate to first pay a number of small invoices in order to generate trust, so that a major blow could be made shortly thereafter.

With the rise in unpaid bills and with it the chance of being caught, the used companies were administratively transferred to catchers. Bankruptcies followed and the bankruptcy trustees were blunted by the efforts of those catcatchers in retrieving the records and addressing those who had caused the damage. As a result, creditors saw their claims go up in smoke. While victims and bankruptcy trustees were still looking for traces of goods, administration, liable persons and benefits, the suspect and his co-perpetrators were already fully engaged in their fraudulent practices in a new enterprise . The resulting damage runs into the many hundreds of thousands of euros.

The suspect was involved in the purchase, but also in the sale of the goods. The suspect also shared in an equal manner with the main suspects in this investigation , suspect 1 and suspect 2, in the generated profits, as evidenced by a "starting document case 8" found in his home . This shows that the position of the suspect in the criminal organization was an important one, which makes the court take the suspect's disadvantage into account.

From the extract from the Judicial Documentation of 11 February 2019 in the name of the suspect, it follows that the suspect had not previously come into contact with the police and the judicial authorities for similar facts.

In this the court finds reason to impose part of the punishment that is deemed appropriate and commanded in conditional form.

In determining the applicable maximum penalty, the Court of Appeal assumes that the participation in a criminal organization declared as proven under 1 is in a relationship of simultaneous coincidence with the proven joint participation in bottle pulling at 2.

Taking all of the above into account, the Court of Appeal considers a prison sentence for eighteen months, of which six months conditionally with a probationary period of three years in place. The statement of defense that in the event of a statement of evidence it could suffice to impose a fully conditional prison sentence or a work sentence does not do justice to the nature and seriousness of the proven facts, so the court of appeal ignores this.

The Court of Appeal officially determines that the reasonable period as referred to in Article 6 (1) of the European Convention for Protectionof Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) has been exceeded. The starting point in this case is that the hearing must be concluded with a final judgment within two years after an appeal has been lodged, unless there are special circumstances, such as the complexity of a case, the influence of the suspect and / or or his counsel on the course of the proceedings and the way in which the case has been handled by the competent authorities. The Court of Appeal has not proved such special circumstances. With regard to the procedure on appeal, the suspect filed an appeal on December 15, 2016. The court of appeal pronounces judgment on 5 April 2019. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, given the course of the proceedings, the reasonable period has been exceeded by approximately three months and three weeks. Because of this slight exceedance, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it is sufficient to simply state that an infringement of Art. 6, first paragraph, ECHR. The Court of Appeal also takes into account that there was no question of a legally relevant violation of the reasonable period in the proceedings at first instance.

The claim for the imposition of the additional penalty of disqualification from the right to exercise the profession of director under the articles of association is rejected. Participation in a criminal organization, as proven under 1, is not a case determined by law that makes it possible to impose such an additional penalty. With regard to fact 2, the co-perpetration of bottle-pulling, it cannot be established that the suspect has been a statutory director of case 8 and has committed the act in the exercise of that profession, which is to impose the additional punishment of removal from a appeal is a requirement under Article 339, first paragraph Sr.

Confiscated items

The seizure list contains - numbered 1 to 9 - several confiscated objects that have not yet been returned.

With regard to objects numbered 2 to 9, the Advocate General has taken the position that, in accordance with the judgment of the court, the court will order the return to the suspect. With regard to the item numbered 1, the Advocate General requested forfeiture. The counselor has referred to the judgment of the court.

The Court agrees with the Advocate General that the return to the suspect must be ordered of the seized property numbered 2 to 9.

With regard to the item numbered 1 on the attachment list, concerning a property at the time of searching the propertyof the amount of € 975 seized in Purmerend seized, the court is of the opinion that, partly in the light of the lack of a substantiated position of the public prosecutor in that regard, it cannot be established with sufficient certainty that the legal requirements for the imposition of the additional penalty of confiscation or of the measure of withdrawal from traffic. Now that the suspect has not stated that this amount of money belongs to him and this has not been proven by the court, the court will order the custody of this person in respect of this amount of money. The Court of Appeal takes into account that the suspect was living with several people in the relevant home in Purmerend and that the suspect was not questioned regarding the found sum of money, so that a possible relationship with the proven facts, nor with the person of the suspect, cannot be established.

Claims from the injured parties

General considerations

VAT

With the Advocate General and the defense, and in line with consistent case law, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the claimed VAT is not always eligible for allocation. It must be taken into account that this claimed claim is eligible for settlement on the basis of Article 29 of the Turnover Tax Act . In addition, the injured party is under the obligation to limit damage pursuant to Article 6: 101 of the Dutch Civil Code. Now that, despite the above legal principles, VAT has been claimed by various injured parties without further explanation, the claims must be regarded as insufficiently substantiated, so that the injured parties must be declared inadmissible in that regard.

Direct connection

The Court of Appeal has declared proven under 1 that the suspect has participated in a criminal organization with the aim of, among other things, committing bottle-pullery and under 2 proven that the suspect is guilty of co-perpetrating bottle-pullery.

Regarding fact 1, the Court of Appeal considered that the evidence shows that the suspect had an active role in committing bottle-pulling, the crime the organization had in mind. He was involved in ordering goods, his co-perpetrators were also involved in this and there was a shared common intention not to pay for the goods ordered after delivery. The Court of Appeal considers the intensity of this criminal cooperation such that there is question of group liability as referred to in Article 6: 166 of the Dutch Civil Code. This provision provides for individual liability of persons (participants) belonging to a group for damage caused unlawfully by the group. The degree of involvement of the individual participants in the unlawful act is unimportant. This individual liability is justified by everyone's contribution to creating the chance that such damage would occur. It finds its limits in the requirement that the likelihood of causing damage in such a way should have prevented them from conducting them in groups.

In its opinion, the Court of Appeal considers that only the proven participation in a certain organization or group is insufficient to be able to assume liability on the basis of Article 6: 166 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code for all unlawful acts committed by the group. But in this case the suspect knew, or he should have known, that the group action created the chance of the damage suffered by each concrete injured party.

Fact 2 is about the co-perpetration of bottle-drawers in the context of case 8. The Court of Appeal has already considered that the suspect does not have to be directly involved in every purchase or purchase in order to declare the co-perpetration of bottle-drawers proven in this case. However, the suspect's contribution to the purchasing process has been so substantial that, even if it is assumed that he has not been directly involved in every order or delivery, he can be regarded as co-perpetrator of the bottle-puller in the size as charged. Tested on the basis of the aforementioned group liability measure, the suspect can also be held individually liable for this fact for the damage suffered by each of the injured parties related to fact 2.

The foregoing leads to the conclusion that the two proven facts prove to be directly related to the damage suffered. Also to the extent that, if and insofar as the other conditions for granting the claims are met, there is no impediment to an allocation decision on the claims.

The Court of Appeal observes that the replacement custody applied to the compensation measures to be imposed has been capped at a maximum of 365 days.

case 6

supplier L

The injured party supplier L joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 10,420.32, including VAT

The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

Because the claim suffers from some formal defects (including the lack of a signature on the joining form and uncertainty about the authorization), the injured party in the claim cannot be received.

supplier M

The injured party supplier M joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 4,444.33 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the court found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage (which also extends to the extrajudicial collection costs) as a result of the proven act of the suspect under point 1, up to the amount claimed with the exception of VAT. The relevant invoice has been submitted by the bankruptcy trustee of case 6. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim for an amount of € 3,688.75 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier N

The injured party supplier N joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 5,600.02 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the proven act of the accused under 1, up to the amount claimed for the items "coffee machine and ingredients" and "espresso cups and saucers" with exception of VAT. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim for an amount of € 4,302.01 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier O

The injured party supplier O joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 4,805.12 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has proved to be sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed with the exception of VAT as a result of the proven act of the accused under 1 proven. The claim is included in the list of provisionally acknowledged claims drawn up by the bankruptcy trustee of case 6. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim up to an amount of € 3,971.17 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier P

The injured party supplier P initially joined the criminal proceedings with a claim for damages. This amounts to € 8,316.40.12 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has proved to be sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed with the exception of VAT as a result of the proven act of the accused under 1 proven. The claim is included in the list of provisionally acknowledged claims drawn up by the bankruptcy trustee of case 6. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim up to an amount of € 6,873.05 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier J

The injured party supplier J joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for damages. This amounts to € 2,096.88. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

It has not been sufficient to determine the course of affairs with regard to the purchase of the telephone and the relationship between the invoices submitted and the compensation demanded. This means that it cannot be established whether the alleged damage was directly caused by the proven actions of the suspect. The injured party can therefore not be received in the claim.

case 8

supplier 7

The injured party supplier 7 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 11,163.05 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has proved to be sufficient that the injured party has suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed with the exception of VAT as a result of the proven actions of the suspect proven under 1 and 2. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim up to an amount of € 9,225.66 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier 10

The injured party supplier 10 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This is € 19,420.50 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has proved to be sufficient that the injured party has suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed with the exception of VAT as a result of the proven actions of the suspect proven under 1 and 2. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim for an amount of € 16,050.00 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier 2

The injured party supplier 2 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 3,569.28 excl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed as a result of the proven actions of the suspect proven under 1 and 2. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim up to an amount of € 3,569.28 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier 11

The injured party supplier 11 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 30,797.36 (exempt from VAT). The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed as a result of the proven actions of the suspect proven under 1 and 2. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim up to an amount of € 30,797.36 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier 18

The injured party supplier 18 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. After downward adjustment by letter of 22 April 2015, this amounts to € 14,723.09 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has found that the injured party has suffered direct damage as a result of the proven actions of the accused under 1 and 2 to an amount of € 9,784.05 (the court assumes incl. VAT). In addition, the estate contribution of € 1,502.52 excl. VAT and the transport costs of € 876.44 (to the court presupposes incl. VAT) are eligible for allocation. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim for an amount of € 10,312.84 will be jointly and severally granted.

For the rest, the injured party is declared inadmissible, including the part of the claim that relates to the legal aid given. The Court of Appeal will, pursuant to Article 592a of the Criminal Code and in accordance with the applicable liquidation rate, order the accused to pay the costs of the injured party.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier 1

The injured party supplier 1 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 22,169.01 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the actions of the accused declared proven under 1 and 2 to an amount of € 17,440.21 excl. VAT (items 1 up to and including VAT) 3 minus item 4). The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim up to that amount will be awarded jointly and severally. For the rest, the injured party is declared inadmissible because it has proved insufficient of a direct connection with the proven statement.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier Q

The injured party supplier Q joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 5,694.30. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the court found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage as a result of the proven act of the suspect under 1 to an amount of € 5,637.92 (the amount claimed minus the item "interest"). The injured party has stated the returned goods on the joint form and deducted the value from the claim for damages. The suspect is obliged to compensate the damage, so that the claim up to that amount will be jointly and severally granted. With regard to the “interest” item, the injured party is declared inadmissible because it has proved insufficient of a direct connection with the proven explanation.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier 19

The injured party supplier 19 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This is € 9,568.95 excl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed as a result of the proven actions of the suspect proven under 1 and 2. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim for an amount of € 9,568.95 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier R

The injured party supplier R joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for damages. This amounts to € 1,414.31, including VAT. The claim was declared manifestly inadmissible in the case of the judgment. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

It has proved insufficient that the alleged damage was directly caused by the proven actions of the suspect. The injured party cannot be received in the claim.

supplier 25

The injured party supplier 25 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 16,425.00 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has proved to be sufficient that the injured party has suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed with the exception of VAT as a result of the proven actions of the suspect proven under 1 and 2. The declaration was made by person D. He has also filled in the joining form and the appeal form.

The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim for an amount of € 13,575.91 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier 16

The injured party supplier 16 joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for damages. This amounts to € 22,608.61 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has proved to be sufficient that the injured party has suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed with the exception of VAT as a result of the proven actions of the suspect proven under 1 and 2. The declaration was made by person E. This has also filled in the joint form.

The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim for an amount of € 18,684.80 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

case 10

supplier Y

The injured party supplier Y joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for damages. This amounts to € 861.49, including VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

It has proved insufficient that the alleged damage was directly caused by the proven actions of the suspect. The injured party can therefore not be received in the claim.

supplier Z

The injured party supplier Z initially joined the criminal proceedings with a claim for damages. This amounts to € 10,313.88 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has proved to be sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed with the exception of VAT as a result of the proven act of the accused under 1 proven. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim for an amount of € 8,275.60 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier AA

The injured party supplier AA initially joined the criminal proceedings with a claim for damages. This amounts to € 1,219.26 excl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal found it sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed as a result of the proven act of the suspect under 1 proven. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim up to an amount of € 1,219.26 will be awarded jointly and severally.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

supplier BB

The injured party supplier BB joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 36,521.73, including VAT. The claim was declared manifestly inadmissible in the case of the judgment. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

Because the claim suffers from some formal defects (including the authority of representation of the person who signed the joinder form) the injured party in the claim cannot be received.

supplier R

The injured party supplier R joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for damages. This amounts to € 542.09 incl. VAT. The injured party has been declared inadmissible by the court. The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim of the injured party be granted.

The claim of the injured party has been disputed by and on behalf of the suspect.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has proved to be sufficient that the injured party suffered direct damage up to the amount claimed with the exception of VAT as a result of the proven act of the accused under 1 proven. The Court of Appeal considers that the procedural documents show that the claim has been included on the list of provisionally acknowledged claims, drawn up by the bankruptcy trustee of case 10 (report of case 10, page 23) and is mentioned in the bankruptcy report (file page 527) . The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage, so that the claim up to an amount of € 448.84 will be jointly and severally granted.

In order to promote compensation for the damage suffered by the suspect, the court of appeal will impose the measure of article 36f of the Penal Code in the manner to be described below.

Applicable legal requirements

The penalties and measure to be imposed are based on Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 36f, 47, 55, 63, 140, and 326a of the Criminal Code .

These legal regulations are applied as applicable at the time of the proven.

DECISION

The court:

Destroys the judgment that appeals and does justice again:

Declares, as considered above, proven that the suspect committed the charges under 1 and 2.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares the proven punishable under 1 and 2, qualifies as aforementioned and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to prison for 18 (eighteen) months .

Determines that a part of the prison sentence, large for 6 (six) months , will not be enforced, unless the judge may order otherwise later because the suspect committed a criminal offense before the end of a probationary period of 3 (three) years guilty.

Recommends that the time taken by the accused before the implementation of that decision only in Article 27, paragraph, or Article 27a of the Code of Criminal will be referred to as pre-trial detention was spent in the execution of the sentence of imprisonment reduced , in so far as that time has not already been deducted from another penalty.

Order the return to the suspect of the seized, not yet returned objects, namely:

no. 2. removal box with various administrative documents

No. 3. various documents (administration)

No. 4. various documents

no. 5. various cards from the wallet of the suspect 5

No. 6. various documents (administration)

no. 7. various documents (administration)

no. 8. company name invoice dated July 15, 2014

no. 9. various documents in a blue folder + black ring binder.

Order the detention for the beneficiary of the seized object that has not yet been returned, namely:

No. 1. money 975 euros, 6054234_4144, ibn: H.01.05.005.

Furthermore, with regard to the claims of the injured parties

With regard to case 6

Declares the injured parties supplier L and supplier J inadmissible in their claims.

Claim from the injured party supplier M

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier M in respect of the proven under 1 up to the amount of € 3,688.75 (three thousand six hundred eighty-eight euros and seventy-five eurocent) for material damage, for which the suspect with the co-perpetrator (s) ) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier M, an amount of € 3,688.75 (three thousand six hundred eighty-eight euros and seventy-five eurocent) in respect of the evidence stated under 1 to replace material damage , in the absence of payment and redress by 14 (fourteen) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier N

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier N in respect of the proven proven under 1 to the amount of € 4,302.01 (four thousand three hundred and two euros) for material damage, for which the suspect with the co-perpetrator (s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier N, an amount of € 4,302.01 (four thousand three hundred and two cents and one cent) in respect of the evidence proven under 1 damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 14 (fourteen) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier O

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier O in respect of the proven under 1 to the amount of € 3,971.17 (three thousand nine hundred and seventy-one euros and seventeen cents) in respect of material damage, for which the defendant with the co-perpetrator (s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier O, an amount of € 3,971.17 (three thousand nine hundred and seventy-one seventy-one euros and seventeen cents) in respect of the evidence stated under 1 damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 13 (thirteen) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier P

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier P in respect of the proven under 1 to the amount of € 6,873.05 (six thousand eight hundred and seventy three euros and five cents) in respect of material damage, for which the suspect with the co-perpetrator (s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier P, an amount of € 6,873.05 (six thousand eight hundred seventy-three euros and five cents) in respect of the evidence stated under 1 damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 17 (seventeen) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation of compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

With regard to case 8

Declares the injured party supplier R inadmissible in the claim.

Claim from the injured party supplier 7

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier 7 in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 up to the amount of € 9,225.66 (nine thousand two hundred and twenty five euros and sixty-six cents) for material damage, for which the defendant with the co-perpetrator ( s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier 7, an amount of the proven proven under 1 and 2 of:

€ 9,225.66 (nine thousand two hundred and twenty five euros and sixty-six cents) as compensation for material damage , to be replaced by 23 (twenty-three) day detention in the absence of payment and redress , on the understanding that the application of such custody is subject to the obligation to pay compensation to the State. for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier 10

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier 10 in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 to the amount of € 16,050.00 (sixteen thousand and fifty euros) in respect of material damage, for which the defendant with the co-perpetrator (s) jointly and severally is liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier 10, an amount of € 16,050.00 (sixteen thousand and fifty-six euros) as compensation for material damage in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 29 (twenty-nine) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not lift the obligation of compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier 2

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier 2 in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 up to the amount of € 3,569.28 (three thousand five hundred sixty-nine euros and twenty-eight cents) in respect of material damage, for which the defendant with the co-perpetrator ( s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier 2, an amount of € 3,569.28 (three thousand five hundred and sixty-nine euro and twenty-eight cents) in respect of the evidence proven under 1 and 2 for material damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 21 (twenty-one) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier 11

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier 11 in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 up to the amount of € 30,797.36 (thirty thousand seven hundred ninety seven euros and thirty-six cents) in respect of material damage, for which the accused with the co-perpetrator ( s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier 11, an amount of € 30,797.36 (thirty thousand seven hundred ninety seven euros and thirty-six cents) in respect of the evidence proven under 1 and 2 for material damage , in the absence of payment and redress replaced by 46 (forty-six) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier 18

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier 18 in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 to the amount of € 10,312.84 (ten thousand three hundred and twelve euros and eighty-four cents) in respect of material damage, for which the defendant with the co-perpetrator ( s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the accused to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at € 543.00 (five hundred and forty-three euros) up to the date of this judgment .

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier 18, an amount of the proven proven under 1 and 2 of:

€ 10,312.84 (ten thousand three hundred and twelve euros and eighty-four cents) as compensation for material damage , in the absence of payment and redress to be replaced by 21 (twenty-one) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody is subject to the obligation to pay compensation to the State. for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier 1

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier 1 in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 up to the amount of € 17,440.21 (seventeen thousand four hundred forty-four euros and twenty-one cents) in respect of material damage, for which the defendant with the co-perpetrator ( s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim named supplier 1, an amount of € 17,440.21 (seventeen thousand four hundred and forty-one euro and twenty-one cents) in respect of the evidence proven under 1 and 2 for material damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 31 (thirty-one) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation of compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier Q

Allocates the claim for compensation from the injured party supplier Q in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 up to the amount of € 5,637.92 (five thousand six hundred thirty-seven euros and ninety-two cents) in respect of material damage, for which the defendant with the co-perpetrator ( s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the suspect the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier Q, an amount of the proven proven under 1 and 2 of:

€ 5,637.92 (five thousand six hundred and thirty-seven euros and ninety-two cents) as compensation for material damage , to be replaced by 16 (sixteen) days in custody in the absence of payment and redress , on the understanding that the application of such custody shall incur the obligation to pay compensation to the State. for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier 19

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier 19 in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 up to the amount of € 9,568.95 (nine thousand five hundred and sixty-eight euros and ninety-five cents) for material damage, for which the defendant with the co-perpetrator ( s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the suspect the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier 19, an amount of € 9,568.95 (nine thousand five hundred and sixty eight euro and ninety five cents) in respect of the evidence proven under 1 and 2 for material damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 20 (twenty) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier 25

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier 25 in respect of the proven proven under 1 and 2 up to the amount of € 13,575.91 (thirteen thousand five hundred and seventy five euros and ninety one cent) in respect of material damage, for which the accused with the co-perpetrator ( s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the suspect the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier 25, an amount of the proven proven under 1 and 2 of:

€ 13,575.91 (thirteen thousand five hundred and seventy-five euros and ninety-one cents) as compensation for material damage , to be replaced by 30 (thirty) days in custody in the absence of payment and redress , on the understanding that the application of such custody shall be subject to the obligation to pay compensation to the State. for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier 16

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier 16. with regard to the evidence proven under 1 and 2 up to the amount of € 18,684.80 (eighteen thousand six hundred eighty-four euros and eighty cents) in respect of material damage, for which the suspect is jointly and severally liable with the co-perpetrator (s) for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the suspect the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier 16, an amount of the proven proven under 1 and 2 of:

€ 18,684.80 (eighteen thousand six hundred eighty-four euros and eighty cents) as compensation for material damage , to be replaced by 43 (forty-three) days detention in the absence of payment and redress , on the understanding that the application of such custody is subject to the obligation to pay compensation to the State. for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

With regard to case 10

Declares the injured parties supplier Y and supplier BB inadmissible in their claims.

Claim from the injured party supplier Z

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier Z in respect of the proven under 1 to the amount of € 8,275.60 (eight thousand two hundred and seventy five euros and sixty cents) in respect of material damage, for which the accused with the co-perpetrator (s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier Z, an amount of € 8,275.60 (eight thousand two hundred and seventy five euros and sixty cents) in respect of the evidence stated under 1 damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 19 (nineteen) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation of compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier AA

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier AA in respect of the proven under 1 to the amount of € 1,219.26 (one thousand two hundred nineteen euros and twenty-six cents) in respect of material damage, for which the accused with the co-perpetrator (s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the suspect the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier AA, an amount of € 1,219.26 (one thousand two hundred and nineteen euros and twenty-six cents) in respect of the evidence proven under 1 damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 6 (six) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Claim from the injured party supplier R

Allocates the claim for damages from the injured party supplier R in respect of the proven under 1 to the amount of € 448.84 (four hundred forty-eight euros and eighty-four cents) in respect of material damage, for which the suspect with the co-perpetrator (s) is jointly and severally liable for the entire amount.

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the accused the obligation to pay to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named supplier R, an amount of € 448.84 (four hundred forty-eight euros and eighty-four cents) in respect of the evidence proven under 1 damage , in the absence of payment and redress, to be replaced by 2 (two) days in custody, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect or his co-perpetrator (s) has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

This judgment was delivered by the multiple criminal chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal, which included SMM Bordenga , RM Steinhaus and W. Foppen, in the presence of NR Achterberg, Registrar, and was heard at the public hearing of this court of 5 April 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 1185