Content indication
Assassination of a 66-year-old woman at the time and qualified assassination of a 71-year-old man in Groningen on 18 January 2013. Suspect suffers from an antisocial personality disorder, to an extent that can be referred to as psychopathy . The Court of Appeal considers that the qualified manslaughter can be attributed to the defendant to a lesser extent. The court imposes a prison sentence on the accused for the duration of 24 years and TBS with compulsory treatment .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-03-06
Publication date
2019-03-06
Case number
21-003339-16
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
Department of criminal law

Parquet number: 21-003339-16

Ruling dated: March 6, 2019

Contradiction

Short judgment of the multiple chamber for criminal cases

recalled the appeal brought against the judgment of the Northern Netherlands court of 2 June 2016 in the criminal cases joined at first instance, public prosecutor numbers 18-850046-13 and 18-232368-12, against

suspect ,

born at place of birth on date of birth 1975,

currently residing in PI location 1.

The appeal

The suspect and the public prosecutor have appealed against the aforementioned judgment.

Investigation of the case

This judgment was given in connection with the investigation at the court hearings of 24 November 2016, 24 and 25 April 2018, 30 August 2018, 6 February 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the investigation on the hearing at first instance.

This claim was submitted to the court at the hearing on 24 and 25 April 2018 after reading. At the hearing on 6 February 2019, the Advocate General amended his claim in the sense that he has demanded a prison sentence of 24 years, after deduction of the custody judgment, and the imposition of the (unlimited) provision for detention with an order for nursing . This claim was submitted to the court after reading.

The Court of Appeal also took cognizance of what was put forward by the accused and his successive counsel, DN de Jonge and E. Kok.

Admissibility of the appeal with regard to the charges in the case with prosecutor number 18-232368-12 under 2 and 3

The defendant was acquitted by the court of the charges charged in case with parquet number 18-232368-12 under 2 and 3.

To the extent that the accused's appeal is directed against these acquittals, the accused cannot be received therein. The Court of Appeal will declare the suspect inadmissible in this regard in the appeal.

The Court of Appeal will furthermore declare the public prosecutor regarding these facts inadmissible in the appeal. With regard to this, the Court of Appeal sees reason to apply the provisions of Article 416, third paragraph, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, since the public prosecutor does not object in writing to the acquittals of the in parquet number 18-232368-12 under 2 and 3 the accused, the attorney general has explicitly stated at the hearing of the court that the appeal is also not directed against the acquittals and that the court does not of its own motion see reasons that require substantive treatment of these facts.

The judgment whose appeal

The court acquitted the accused by judgment of 2 June 2016, against which the appeal of the accused and the public prosecutor is appealed, from the primary charge in the case with prosecutor number 18-850046-13 (murder of victim 1) and under 1 subsidiary indictment (qualified manslaughter on victim 1) and under 2 primary indictment (murder of victim 2) and under 2 subsidiary indictment (qualified manslaughter on victim 2) and convicted of inter alia subsidiary indictment (manslaughter on 1 victim 1) and, among other things, subsidiary charges (homicide on victim 2), both committed on 18 January 2013,and in addition, in the case with prosecutor number 18-232368-12 under 1 charges (theft in association of the bicycle of victim 1), committed on March 31, 2012, sentenced to imprisonment for the duration of 20 years, with deduction of custody .

The court furthermore, as already considered above, acquitted the defendant of the charges in the case with public prosecutor number 18-232368-12 under 2 and 3. In addition, in connection with the aforementioned acquittal of fact 2, the court declared the injured party inadmissible in his claim.

The court of appeal will set aside the judgment of which appeal, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court of appeal, because it comes to a different decision on evidence with regard to the charges under 1 and therefore redress.

The indictment

The defendant has been charged - after changing the indictment at the hearing in first instance and to the extent that it is important in an appeal - that:

In the case with parquet number 18-850046-13 :

1. primary:

on or about January 18, 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another or others, at least alone, intentionally and with premeditated robbery of victim 1 of the life, after all, suspected suspect and / or (one or more of) his co-perpetrator (s) with that intention and after calm consultation and consultation, (among other things),

a cord, or at least one object, arranged around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 1 and / or one or more other actions with regard to that cord, at least that object, performs and / or (subsequently) that cord, at least that object , attracted as a result of compressive and / or strapping and / or compressive violence on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1, and / or
with his / their hands the throat of that victim 1 squeezed shut and / or squeezed shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 1 and / or one or more (other) strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 1, causing compressive and / or strapping and / or compressing violence on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1 has arisen, and / or
a cloth in the mouth and / or throat of that victim 1 stuffed / pushed, and / or
a plastic bag pulled over the head of that victim 1 and / or then that bag tied with a cord, and / or
with a hard object struck on the head and / or neck and / or torso and / or other parts of the body of that victim 1, and / or
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or the trunk and / or other parts of the body of that victim,
as a result of which said victim 1 has died;

1. in the alternative:

on or about January 18, 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another or others, at least alone, has intentionally robbed victim 1 of the life, after all, suspects and / or (one or more of) co-perpetrator (s) with that purpose,

a cord, or at least one object, arranged around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 1 and / or one or more other actions with regard to that cord, at least that object, performs and / or (subsequently) that cord, at least that object , attracted as a result of compressive and / or strapping and / or compressive violence on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1, and / or
with his / their hands the throat of that victim 1 squeezed shut and / or squeezed shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 1 and / or one or more (other) strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 1, causing compressive and / or strapping and / or compressing violence on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1 has arisen, and / or
a cloth in the mouth and / or throat of that victim 1 stuffed / pushed, and / or
a plastic bag pulled over the head of that victim 1 and / or then that bag tied with a cord, and / or
with a hard object struck on the head and / or neck and / or torso and / or other parts of the body of that victim 1, and / or
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or the trunk and / or other parts of the body of that victim,
as a result of which said victim 1 has died,

which aforementioned homicide was followed, accompanied and / or preceded by any criminal offense, namely theft (with violence and / or a false key), whether or not committed in association, of a computer (laptop), mobile phone and / or food and / or other property (ies) of that victim 1, and / or mistreatment of that victim 1, and / or deprivation of liberty of that victim 1, and which manslaughter was committed for the purpose of executing that / that fact ( and) prepare and / or make it easy and / or, in the event of being caught red-handed, assure himself and / or the other participant (s) impunity and / or the possession of the illegally obtained person;

1. more in the alternative:

on or about January 18, 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another or others, at least alone, has intentionally robbed victim 1 of the life, after all, suspects and / or (one or more of) co-perpetrator (s) with that purpose,

a cord, or at least one object, arranged around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 1 and / or one or more other actions with regard to that cord, at least that object, performs and / or (subsequently) that cord, at least that object , attracted as a result of compressive and / or strapping and / or compressive violence on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1, and / or
with his / their hands the throat of that victim 1 squeezed shut and / or squeezed shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 1 and / or one or more (other) strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 1, causing compressive and / or strapping and / or compressing violence on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1 has arisen, and / or
a cloth in the mouth and / or throat of that victim 1 stuffed / pushed, and / or
a plastic bag pulled over the head of that victim 1 and / or then that bag tied with a cord, and / or
with a hard object struck on the head and / or neck and / or torso and / or other parts of the body of that victim 1, and / or
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or the trunk and / or other parts of the body of that victim,
as a result of which said victim 1 has died;

1. In the further alternative:

on or about January 18, 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another or others, at least alone, with the intention of unlawful appropriation, has taken away a mobile phone and / or a laptop computer and / or a bag ( including food and / or one or more newspapers), in any case any good, wholly or partly belonging to victim 1, in any case to another person or others than the suspect and / or his co-perpetrator, which theft was preceded and / or accompanied and / or followed by violence and / or threatswith violence against that victim 1, committed with the intention of preparing and / or making the theft easy and / or to allow the escape to himself and / or his co-perpetrator (s) when caught in the act, or to assure possession of what has been stolen, which violence and / or which threat of violence therein existed by the suspect and / or one or more of his co-perpetrator (s),

a cord, or at least one object, has / has arranged around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 1 and / or has performed one or more other actions with regard to that cord, at least that object, and / or (subsequently) that cord, or at least that object, has / has been tightened as a result of which compressive and / or strapping and / or compressing violence has arisen on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1, and / or
with his / their hands the throat of that victim 1 has / have pressed shut and / or has kept shut and / or has applied a (so-called) strangulation to that victim 1 and / or one or more (other) has arranged and / or applied strangulation and / or strangulation by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects on the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 1, causing compressive and / or strapping and / or compressing violence on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1 has arisen, and / or
has / have crammed / pushed a cloth in the mouth and / or throat of that victim 1, and / or
has / have pulled a plastic bag over the head of that victim 1 and / or subsequently has tied the bag with a cord, and / or
has struck a hard object on the head and / or neck and / or torso and / or other parts of the body of that victim 1, and / or
has struck, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or the trunk and / or other parts of the body of that victim 1,
while the aforementioned fact resulted in death for that victim 1;

1. most alternatively:

he on or around January 18, 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another or others, at least alone, to a person named victim 1, several times, at least once, intentionally and with or without intention premeditated personal injury, namely:

bruises in the scalp and / or in the face and / or in both ear cups as a result of multiple, at least once applied externally acting mechanical stomp force, and / or
fractures of the tongue bone and / or larynx due to very violent compressing and / or strapping and / or compressing violence on the neck and / or mouth floor, and / or
broken ribs and / or chest bone as a result of violent impact on the trunk,
has inflicted, after all, has suspect and / or his co-perpetrator (s) with that intention and whether or not after calm deliberation and calm consultation, (inter alia),

a cord, or at least one object, arranged around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 1 and / or one or more other actions with regard to that cord, at least that object, performs and / or (subsequently) that cord, at least that object , attracted as a result of compressive and / or strapping and / or compressive violence on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1, and / or
with his / their hands the throat of that victim 1 squeezed shut and / or squeezed shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 1 and / or one or more (other) strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 1, as a result of which compressive and / or strapping and / or compressing violence on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1, and / or
a cloth in the mouth and / or throat of that victim 1 stuffed / pushed, and / or
a plastic bag pulled over the head of that victim 1 and / or then that bag tied with a cord, and / or
with a hard object struck on the head and / or neck and / or torso and / or other parts of the body of that victim 1, and / or
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or the trunk and / or other parts of the body of that victim,
while that fact resulted in the death of that victim 1;

2. primary:

on or about January 18, 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another or others, at least alone, intentionally and with premeditated robbery of victim 2 of life, after all, suspect and / or his co-perpetrator ( s) with that purpose and after calm consultation and consultation, (among other things),

an object is placed around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 2 and / or carries out one or more other actions with regard to that object and / or (subsequently) attracted that object causing compressive and / or straining violence on the neck / throat of that victim 2 has arisen, and / or
with his / their hands the throat of that victim 2 squeezed shut and / or held shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 2 and / or one or more (other) strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 2, as a result of which compressive and / or strapping violence on the neck / throat of that victim 2 has arisen, and / or
with a hard object struck on the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim 2, and / or
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim, and / or
with a knife, or at least a sharp and / or pointed object, repeatedly and at least once inserted and / or cut into the neck / neck region and / or arm of that victim 2,
as a result of which the aforementioned victim 2 has died;

2. In the alternative:

on or about January 18, 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another or others, at least alone, has intentionally robbed victim 2 of life, after all, suspect and / or his co-perpetrator (s) with that intent, (among others),

an object is placed around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 2 and / or carries out one or more other actions with regard to that object and / or (subsequently) attracted that object causing compressive and / or straining violence on the neck / throat of that victim 2 has arisen, and / or
with his / their hands the throat of that victim 2 squeezed shut and / or held shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 2 and / or one or more (other) strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 2, as a result of which compressive and / or strapping violence on the neck / throat of that victim 2 has arisen, and / or
with a hard object struck on the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim 2, and / or
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim, and / or
with a knife, or at least a sharp and / or pointed object, repeatedly and at least once inserted and / or cut into the neck / neck region and / or arm of that victim 2,
as a result of which said victim 2 died,

which previously described homicide was followed, accompanied and / or preceded by any criminal offense, namely theft (with violence and / or a false key), whether or not committed in association, of a mobile phone and / or a SIM card and / or other property (ies) of that victim 2, and / or mistreatment of that victim 2, and which homicide was committed for the purpose of preparing and / or making easy the execution of that fact (s) and / or / or to ensure impunity and / or possession of the unlawfully obtained person in the event of improper red-handedness to himself and / or the other participant (s);

2. more in the alternative:

on or about January 18, 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another or others, at least alone, has intentionally robbed victim 2 of life, after all, suspect and / or his co-perpetrator (s) with that intent, (among others),

an object is placed around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 2 and / or carries out one or more other actions with regard to that object and / or (subsequently) attracted that object causing compressive and / or straining violence on the neck / throat of that victim 2 has arisen, and / or
with his / their hands the throat of that victim 2 squeezed shut and / or held shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 2 and / or one or more (other) strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 2, as a result of which compressive and / or strapping violence on the neck / throat of that victim 2 has arisen, and / or
with a hard object struck on the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim 2, and / or
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim, and / or
with a knife, or at least a sharp and / or pointed object, repeatedly and at least once inserted and / or cut into the neck / neck region and / or arm of that victim 2,
as a result of which the aforementioned victim 2 has died;

2. In the further alternative:

on or about 18 January 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another person or others, at least solely for the purpose of unlawful appropriation, has taken away a mobile telephone and / or a SIM card and / or (a) other good (ies), in any case any good wholly or partly belonging to victim 2, in any case to another person or others than suspect and / or his co-perpetrator, which theft was preceded and / or accompanied and / or followed by violence and / or threatwith violence against that victim 2, committed for the purpose of preparing and / or making the theft easy and / or to allow for the escape to himself and / or his co-perpetrator (s) in the case of a red-handed act, or to assure possession of what has been stolen, which violence and / or which threat of violence therein existed by the suspect and / or one or more of his co-perpetrator (s),

has placed an object around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 2 and / or has performed one or more other actions with regard to that object and / or has (subsequently) attracted that object causing compression and / or or encroachment on the neck / throat of that victim 2 has arisen, and / or
has with his / their hands the throat of that victim 2 has / have pressed shut and / or has kept shut and / or has applied a (so-called) strangulation to that victim 2 and / or one or more (other) has arranged and / or applied strangulation and / or strangulation by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects on the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 2, causing compressive and / or encircling violence on the neck / throat of that victim 2 has arisen, and / or
has struck a hard object on the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim 2, and / or
has struck, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim, and / or
with a knife, or at least a sharp and / or pointed object, has repeatedly stabbed and / or cut into the neck / neck region and / or arm of that victim 2,
while the aforementioned fact resulted in death for that victim 2;

2. most alternatively:

he on or about January 18, 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, together and in association with another or others, at least alone, to a person named victim 2, several times, at least once, intentionally and with or without intention premeditated personal injury, namely:

many hypodermic bruises and / or superficial bruises spread over the head, soft meninges, face, neck, torso, hands and fingers, as a result of multiple incursions of externally acting stump impact force, and / or
fractures of the cartilage on the right, the tongue bone on the right and the left upper horn of the larynx due to strapping, compressing and / or compressing violence on the neck, and / or
stab injuries with superficial perforation of the soft tissue of the neck with related perforation of the cartilage bone to the left as a result of multiple sharp-edged perforations on the neck, and / or
stab injuries on the left upper arm,
has inflicted, after all, has suspect and / or his co-perpetrator (s) with that intention and whether or not after calm deliberation and calm consultation, (inter alia),

an object is placed around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 2 and / or carries out one or more other actions with regard to that object and / or (subsequently) attracted that object causing compressive and / or straining violence on the neck / throat of that victim 2 has arisen, and / or
with his / their hands the throat of that victim 2 squeezed shut and / or held shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 2 and / or one or more (other) strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 2, as a result of which compressive and / or strapping violence is on the neck / throat of that victim 2 arise, and / or
with a hard object struck on the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim 2, and / or
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim, and / or
with a knife, or at least a sharp and / or pointed object, repeatedly and at least once inserted and / or cut into the neck / neck region and / or arm of that victim 2,
while that fact resulted in the death of that victim 2.

In the case with parquet number 18-232368-12 :

1.

on or about March 31, 2012 in Groningen together and in association with another or others, at least alone, for the purpose of unlawful appropriation, has taken away a laptop and / or several, at least a telephone (s) and / or a photo camera and / or a bicycle, in any case any good, wholly or partly belonging to victim 1, in any case to someone else or others than the suspect and / or his co-perpetrator (s).

If language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, these have been corrected. The suspect was therefore not harmed in the defense.

Considerations regarding the evidence

On 18 January 2013, the bodies of victim 2 (hereafter: victim 2) and victim 1 (hereafter: victim 1) were found at different times and each in their own home . Both were killed by crime. The court will discuss these cases below in chronological order of finding and death of victim 2 and victim 1.


1 With regard to the charges under 2 (the victim 2 case)

1.1.
Facts and circumstances

On the basis of the evidence used and the proceedings at the hearing, the Court of Appeal uses the following facts and circumstances.

After her informal caregivers , witness 9 and his wife, were unable to contact victim 2 in the morning of 18 January 2013, an ambulance assistant called in helped the door of victim 2 home at address 1 in Groningen at around 1:30 PM. forced. victim 2 was found to have died. Her body was on the floor in the living room. A natural death was initially assumed. Only later, during the afternoon, was it discovered by employees of funeral home Monuta that there was a stab injury in the neck of victim 2.According to the police investigation , the time of death on January 18, 2013 is between 2:00 AM and 11:00 AM.

Physician and pathologist at the Netherlands Forensic Institute (hereinafter: NFI) A. Maes performed a section on the body of victim 2. She found that there were many haemorrhages of the blood and superficial bruises on the head, soft membranes of the brain, face, neck, trunk and hands and fingers of victim 2. This injury was the result of multiple, life-sustaining externally acting blunt colliding violence. In addition, she has determined that the bruises on the hands and fingers match with defenses. She also found that fractures of the right cartilage on the right, the tongue on the right and the left upper horn of the larynx had occurred, as a result of strapping, compressing and / or compressing violence on the neck. This may have been caused by, among other things, strangulation and strangulation, but also punching / beating / kicking on the neck can be considered. At the neck there were stab injuries with superficial perforation of the soft tissue with related perforation of the cartilage. There were small, perforated openings on the left upper arm that matched piercings with a sharp object such as one or more knives. The death is simply explained by suffocation as a result of strapping and / or compressive violence on the neck sustained during life. It is possible that blood loss caused by stab injuries on the neck contributed to the death. At the neck there were stab injuries with superficial perforation of the soft tissue with related perforation of the cartilage. There were small, perforated openings on the left upper arm that matched piercings with a sharp object such as one or more knives. The death is simply explained by suffocation as a result of strapping and / or compressive violence on the neck sustained during life. It is possible that blood loss caused by stab injuries on the neck contributed to the death. At the neck there were stab injuries with superficial perforation of the soft tissue with related perforation of the cartilage. There were small, perforated openings on the left upper arm that matched piercings with a sharp object such as one or more knives. The death is simply explained by suffocation as a result of strapping and / or compressive violence on the neck sustained during life. It is possible that blood loss caused by stab injuries on the neck contributed to the death. The death is simply explained by suffocation as a result of strapping and / or compressive violence on the neck sustained during life. It is possible that blood loss caused by stab injuries on the neck contributed to the death. The death is simply explained by suffocation as a result of strapping and / or compressive violence on the neck sustained during life. It is possible that blood loss caused by stab injuries on the neck contributed to the death.

The suspect was arrested by the police on the same day, that is on January 18, 2013, at 9 pm in connection with outstanding fines. That same evening, the defendant came into the picture as a possible perpetrator of the killing of victim 2.According to witness (the witness), owner and main occupant of the house at the address 2 to place one where also suspect stayed, was accused in the morning of January 18, 2013 a black cell phone destroyed and he was thus the backyard of the house to entered the address 2. A broken SIM card was subsequently found in a container by the witnesses in the garden of the home at address 2 by witnesses. This sim card turned out to belong to the telephone of victim 2. In the end, the suspect himself admitted that he was in possession of the telephone of victim 2 on 18 January 2013 and that he had called co-resident witness 2 with this telephone.According to a police investigation , the telephone in question was still being used by victim 2 in the afternoon or evening of 17 January 2013.Furthermore, the internet history of the laptop seized by the suspect during his arrest showed that on January 18, around 5:30 pm on the website of the police, he gave Groningen house murder, while at that time there was no information on the internet from which could prove that victim 2 had died in a house in Groningen.

The NFI has investigated possible DNA traces on the clothing of the suspect he was wearing when he was arrested, as well as on shoes of the suspect (purple Nikes Air) seized in the home at address 2 in place 1.The NFI also carried out investigations into, among other things, the fleece sweater that victim 2 wore when her body was found.

The aforementioned research has shown the following.

Blood was found on the cuffs of the suspect's vest. A portion of three blood traces was sampled for DNA testing. A DNA profile was found in the first track, the cell material of which may have come from victim 2, where the chance of match is less than one in one billion. In the third track, a DNA mixing profile of at least two people was found where the cell material may have come from victim 2 and the suspect in which the chance of match with the DNA profile of victim 2 is again less than one in one billion. Based on these results, the court of appeal assumes that the blood found on suspect's vest comes from victim 2.

On the fleece sweater of victim 2, Y-chromosomal DNA mixing profiles were found that could come from the suspect and at least one other unknown man. With regard to one sampling, the hypothesis that the male cell material from the suspect or a man related to the suspect in the male line is much more likely than the hypothesis that the male cell material does not come from the suspect, but from a randomly chosen, not in the male line to the suspect related man.In addition, a DNA mixing profile of at least three people was found on that sweater, which may have come from victim 2, the suspect and at least one unknown person. The match probability is not calculated. The hypothesis that it is cell material from victim 2, suspect and one unknown person is extremely much more likely than the hypothesis that it is cell material from victim 2 and two randomly chosen persons (not related to each other or to the suspect). Based on these results, the court of appeal assumes that the fleece sweater that victim 2 wore when her body was found had DNA from the suspect.

From comparative fiber research conducted by the NFI, the investigator of the NFI concludes that the results provide a clear indication that the traces found on the fleece sweater of victim 2 come partly from the black-red fleece sweater of the suspect and that the number of detected fiber traces indicates recent contact.

There was also blood on the confiscated purple Nikes that had been seized. On the right shoe a DNA mixing profile of two people was found where the cell material may have come from victim 2 and the suspect, the chance of match with the DNA profile of victim 2 being less than one in one billion. Two DNA profiles were found on the left shoe, the cell material of which may have come from victim 2, again with a chance of match that is less than one in one billion. Based on these results, the court of appeal assumes that the blood found on suspect's shoes comes from victim 2.

In conclusion, the court considers that:

victim 2 was killed by violence on January 18, 2013 between 2:00 AM and 11:00 AM;
the suspect was in possession of the telephone of victim 2 on the morning of 18 January 2013, while victim 2 still called with that telephone in the afternoon or evening of 17 January 2013;
the suspect was searching the internet for information about a house murder in Groningen before information was publicly known, which indicates that the suspect was already aware of the violent death of victim 2;
blood from victim 2 was found on the vest and the shoes (purple Nikes) of the suspect;
DNA of the suspect was found on the fleece sweater of victim 2;
comparative fiber research shows that there has been recent contact between victim 2 and the suspect.

1.2.
Witness statements and reliability testify

The file contains the witness statements of (among others) witness 2 (hereinafter: witness 2), co-resident and at that time the girlfriend of the accused, as well as of the aforementioned witness and of witness 3 (hereinafter: witness 3), a friend of suspect. All three of them stated in a incriminating sense about the defendant.

witness 2 has stated that in the morning of 18 January 2018, the suspect left the home at address 2 at around 5.30 a.m. Around 11 o'clock she saw him again, with that phone ( the court understands: the phone of victim 2 ). At 7:47 a.m. she received the following text from the accused: Baby, I really am in a shit. I made a mess of it. Please come home later. I'm in hiding somewhere. For a few hours. Call when you come ma take it easy. Very calm please. I am on my way home again around half past ten. If you come earlier then I call somewhere. Now without bullshit I need you. Forget everything you think, I'm completely crazy. I love your witness 2. Ma this is not gonna be okay. witness 2 further stated that the suspect was very vague and confused. He was talking about blood. He had argued somewhere and when he woke up everything was covered with blood. He said about the knife that it was covered with blood. He was very manic and panicked.

The witness stated, among other things, that the suspect called him on January 18, 2013 around 8:30 am. Suspect said he had done stupid things. He also called something stabbed or something.

witness 3 stated that the suspect called him on January 18, 2018 around 7:00 am. The suspect was then at address 2. Around 10:00 am, the suspect called him again. Suspect cried. He said: I think that woman is dead. The suspect said that his hands were covered with blood and that he thought the woman's head had been hit against the table.

The defense has argued that the aforementioned witness statements are unreliable.

The Court of Appeal, however, considers the statements of witness 2, witness and witness 3 to be reliable and useful for the evidence. To this end, the court considers as follows. witness 2 and witness were heard almost immediately after the suspect was arrested on 18 January 2013.They explain from their own observations, the statements appear authentic and there are no indications that they are mutually coordinated. In general, hearing witnesses immediately after the incident improves the reliability of the statements. In addition, the statements of witness, witness 2 and witness 3 are substantively consistent. The statement of witness 3 - which also speaks from his own point of view - is further supported by the statement of witness 4 where he states that witness 3 called him on 18 January 2013 and told him that he had a friend who needed a break and some shelter needed. The statements of the witnesses are also supported by the telephone data investigated by the police.The Court of Appeal also has no other reason to doubt the reliability of the statements of the aforementioned witnesses. The court considers the statement that the witnesses had a watchful night with a lot of cocaine use to be insufficient. The defense of the defense that the statements are unreliable is rejected.


1.3.
Reading suspect regarding the victim's case 2

During his interrogation, the Defendant gave various readings of the facts. The most recent version of the facts, according to him, occurred as follows - in summary - as follows.

In March 2012, the suspect, together with another suspect and another person not named, went to a nursery in the vicinity of place 2 and they robbed this nursery. Five garbage bags were then taken from weed. Suspect then the weed at first victim, with whom he then with his girlfriend in the house stayed, hiding under the bed. When the suspect subsequently went to live with victim 2, he moved two bags to the homeof victim 2. In October 2012, the suspect went to victim 1 to ask about the weed, but the weed was no longer there. On December 31, 2012, the suspect went to get his things from victim 2. The two garbage bags with the weed that lay with victim 2 were also found to be without a trace. Shortly after New Year, the defendant told his fellow suspect what had happened. The suspect was subsequently called by co-suspect on the night of 18 January 2013 around 2:30 am. fellow suspect told suspect that someone would come to him. The suspect then left the house at address 2 and went to location 2 by bike and got into the car with two boys, name 2 and name 3. They threatenedsuspect with a weapon. The boys wanted to see money or see where the weed was stored. The suspect then assigned both the house of victim 1 and that of victim 2 to the men. The suspect was then deposited in location 2 and went home again. He was then called around 4:30 AM by the aforementioned name 2. Suspect had to come to the thrift store at address 3. The suspect went to address 3 by bicycle. There he found victim 2 lying on the street. name 2 and name 3 stood next to her. There too, the suspect was threatened with a firearm . Suspect has felt in the neck of victim 2 whether she still had a heartbeat. He felt nothing. The suspect had to go from name 2 and name 3 to the body of victim 2house lift. The defendant said he did this. In addition, the suspect also took the phone from victim 2. fellow suspect died in 2015.

The court of appeal will first of all comment on the establishment of the aforementioned statement by the accused.

The court finds the following. For the first time, the accused stated about the aforementioned scenario at the court session on 24 April 2014, so more than a year after his arrest. Until then, the suspect denied any involvement in the death of victim 2. On 3 June 2014, the defendant made a further statement to the police. Subsequently, on 15 October 2014, following a statement by the defendant, a reconstruction took place at address 3 and in and around the homeof victim 2. The defendant also extensively described what he thought had happened. At the court session on 29 and 30 October 2015, the defendant again told what had happened and supplemented his statement. He thus dared to state his statement at that time also the name of fellow suspect who had died shortly before during a rip deal that took place at 3. During the appeal phase, the defendant was again heard by the police, namely on 16 March 2017. In addition to the statements made by the defendant before the police and at the hearing, the file also contains several tap and OVC conversations between among others witness 2 and suspect. In those conversations, the defendant also told about what would have happened or not.

The Court of Appeal concluded, with the court, that the accused not only stated that he was very variable, but also that his statement regarding the scenario had been made over the course of time, in each case adapted to the facts that at the time of the investigation at that time. were known. In addition, the defendant contradicts himself and his statements do not correspond to what witnesses say.

As an example of his constantly changing statements, the court mentions the various statements that the defendant has made with regard to the telephone of victim 2. For example, during his interrogation with the police on 20 January 2013, the suspect stated on that telephone that he did not have it. Then on March 8, 2013, he told witness 2 (in an OVC interview) that he had bought the phone in the park. Subsequently, the defendant stated at the court session of 24 April 2014 that he himself took the telephone from the pocket of victim 2 and put it in his pocket, but he stated at the hearing of the court of October 29, 2015 that one of the persons who stood at the body of victim 2 has put the phone in the suspect's pocket. From various tap and OVC conversations in the file between witness 2 and suspect, among other things, it is also clear that the suspect is concretely changing the content of his statements about the possession of that telephone of victim 2 and apparently consciously adjusts it according to the successive successive results of the criminal investigation.

The defendant also amended or supplemented his statement on appeal. For example, the defendant stated for the first time at the hearing of the court of 24 and 25 April 2018 that, before he designated the homes of victim 1 and victim 2, he went to address 2 with name 2 and name 3 to show where he himself lived.

The court considered the following in its judgment:

Based on this scenario outlined by the suspect, a reconstruction took place on 15 October 2014. The images of this reconstruction were shown at the hearing on October 29, 2015. On the basis of this reconstruction, the court concludes that it is not possible that the suspect had lifted victim 2 to her home . The images clearly show that the suspect was unable to do this. The court considers that he would have had the flu at the time of the reconstruction and was therefore unable to lift the person who had taken on the role of Mrs. Victim 2 during the reconstruction, the court considers unbelievable, all the more so now that the accused did not want to be examined by a doctor at the time .

Furthermore, the suspect's scenario - lifting / towing Ms. Victim 2 - does not fit the fact that no significant damage or wear was found on the pantyhose worn by Ms. Victim 2 on January 18, 2013. In addition, according to several witnesses, Mrs. Victim 2 always had her glasses on and never left without a walker.However, Mrs. Victim 2 did not wear glasses when she was found in her home . The glasses were on the dresser in the living room.The walker was found in the corridor of the home of Mrs. Victim 2,…. This data also conflicts with the suspect's scenario.

The court agrees with the above considerations of the court and takes over. The court adds that the court also finds it very unlikely that name 2 and name 3 taken at least half an hourwould have been waiting for the suspect to have to drag the body of victim 2 on the public road. Furthermore, the defendant has not further specified the identity of both name 2 and name 3 in any way, so that the involvement of these gentlemen alleged by him is completely withdrawn from further investigation.

On the basis of the above, the court, like the court, considers the scenario of the accused, which is in no way verifiable, unbelievable.

The Court of Appeal will therefore set aside the accused's statements regarding his description of the course of events as unbelievable. The court does, however, consider a number of components useful for the evidence. This concerns the statement of the accused that he had the phone of victim 2 in his possession on the morning of 18 January 2013 and that he had called and texted that he had sent witness 2 a text message that day that he was really in the shit and that in the course of the morning he had contact with witness 2 with the telephone of victim 2 because he wanted to tell someone what had happened. For these parts of the statements made by the defendant, support can be found in other reliable technical evidence and witness statements.

The Court of Appeal finds that, apart from the statement of the accused himself, the criminal file contains no clues for involvement of someone other than the accused in the death of the victim 2.

On the basis of the above evidence, as well as the evidence used, as they will be included later in the possible supplement to this judgment, and all that has been considered above is the opinion of the Court, with the court and the Advocate General that it was the suspect who killed victim 2.


1.4.
Intent on the death of the victim 2

The defense has argued (in the alternative) that the suspect had no intention of the death of victim 2.

The court considers as follows. It follows from the section report that victim 2 was killed by strapping, compressing and / or compressing violence on the neck. This may have been caused by, among other things, strangulation and strangulation, but also punching, beating or kicking on the neck can be considered according to the expert. This violence has caused fractures of the right cartilage, the right tongue and the left upper horn of the larynx. In addition, the victim had 2 stab injuries to the neck. It is possible that blood loss due to these stab injuries contributed to the death. victim 2 had defense hand and finger injuries.

The Court of Appeal concluded from the foregoing that the accused must have exercised considerable multi-species and massive violence against the victim 2. Not only did he strangle victim 2 or punch, hit or kick him against the neck, but also stabbed her in the neck with a sharp object. This external violence, attributable to the suspect, is so strongly directed towards the death of victim 2 that the court of appeal considers that the suspect has acted knowingly and knowingly.


1.5.
Acquittal of the charges under primary and subsidiary charges (assassination of victim 2 or qualified manslaughter in respect of her) under 2, but evidence of the incremental charges perpetrated in part 2 (manslaughter of victim 2)

Primarily, the accused was charged with killing victim 2 prematurely.

The Court of Appeal stated first and foremost that for a proven statement of the premeditated component to be established, that the suspect had been able to reflect for some time on the decision to be taken or the decision taken and that he had not acted in an instantaneous upward mood, so that he has had the opportunity to reflect on the significance and consequences of his intended act and to be aware of it.

The question of whether premeditation is involved is a pre-eminent assessment and assessment of the circumstances of the specific case, in which the court must determine the weight of the instructions that argue for or against the proven explanation of premeditation. The finding that the suspect had sufficient time to consider the decision to be taken or the decision taken constitutes an important objective indication , but it is not necessary to prevent the judge from giving more weight to contraindications.

The defendant's statements, now that he denies having robbed victim 2 of his life, have not provided insight into what was dealt with in him before and at the time the offense was committed. Moreover, it is also not possible to ascertain from the file at what time the defendant took the decision to rob Victim 2 of his life, or what the time lag was involved in that decision-making. In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal does not consider that it has been legally proven that the suspect had actually conceived the plan to rob the victim 2 of his life. The Court of Appeal will therefore acquit the accused of the murder of victim 2, which is primarily charged with him.

Under 2, the defendant was charged in the alternative, in short, the qualified manslaughter of victim 2.

The defense has advocated the acquittal of this, since the defendant did not have the required purpose for this. The Advocate General also concludes acquittal of such a homicide committed under aggravating circumstances as referred to in Article 288 of the Criminal Code .

The essence of this criminalization is, from a substantive criminal point of view, that the manslaughter is in an immediate connection (connexity) with another criminal offense, both causally and with regard to the timing of the occurrence of the offense: the other offense must accompany or closely follow or precede that it can be considered to form a whole with the further limitation of the scope of the criminalization being the specific (additional) purpose of the suspect that the manslaughter is aimed at preparing, making easy or - in short - to ensure impunity for that other fact.

In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the criminal file with regard to the manslaughter of victim 2 contains insufficient clues to come to a legally and convincingly proven statement of the accused incriminating form of manslaughter. The court will therefore also acquit the suspect of the qualified manslaughter charged to him under 2 in the alternative.

The Court of Appeal does, however, consider that sufficient legal and convincing evidence is available for a proven explanation of the homicide charge on victim 2, among other things.


2 With regard to the charges under 1 (the victim 1 case)

2.1.
Facts and circumstances

On the basis of the evidence used and the proceedings at the hearing, the Court of Appeal uses the following facts and circumstances.

On the same - previously mentioned - Friday, January 18, 2013, it was reported around 9:20 PM that smoke was coming from the home at address 4 in Groningen.During the extinguishing work, firefighters found the partially burned body of victim 1 (hereafter: victim 1) in the home .Victim 1 was surrounded by a plastic bag from supermarket Albert Heijn, partly melted by the fire. A tea towel was crammed into his mouth, part of which was around the neck of victim 1. A nylon cord was wrapped around the neck around the fabric. The nylon cord ran from the neck area to the left arm. There was also nylon rope around the right ankle.

In the section by the NFI on the body of victim 1, it was found that the tea towel in the oral cavity closed off the passage of the mouth / throat. There were many injuries in the head and neck area. In the scalp, in the face and in both earcups there were bruises that resulted from several times during life sustained external acting mechanical blunt force (beating / punching / kicking) on ​​the head and face. Fractures of the tongue bone, the larynx and the upper ring of the windpipe were caused as a result of very violent compressive and / or strapping and / or compressing violence (strangulation, kicking, kicking and / or punching) on ​​the neck and the mouth floor. There was very much accompanyingshedding of blood in both the soft parts of the neck and mouth and in the mucous membranes of the mouth and throat and in the thyroid gland. Several ribs and the sternum were broken on both sideswas broken, as a result of violent impact on the trunk caused by life. It is possible that thermal violence fragmentation of the trunk contributed to the occurrence of the rib fractures observed at section. The death is simply explained by suffocation as a result of the violence on the neck. It cannot be excluded that the closure of the mouth / throat by the tea towel stuffed therein and the closure of the respiratory tract by a plastic bag buttoned around the head, if these are applied there during life, have the asphyxiation symptoms and hence the death. contributed.

The police reconstructed the hours prior to the death of victim 1 on the basis of witness statements and other evidence. It turned out that victim 1 who arrived Friday at 3:45 pm cafe café 1 on the street 1 in place 1. He asked the present witness 5 where you had to bake a roulade. She told him that it was better for him to fry in butter instead of oil . victim 1 told that he would go to the Albert Heijn for a while. When he left the cafe, she gave him two newspapers from Friday, January 18, 2013. This concerned the Dagblad van het Noorden and the Telegraaf. Around 5:16 pm, victim 1 at the Hema on the street 1 bought in place 1 a bottle of liquid detergent. victim 1 went to the Albert Heijn at address 5. He bought there, according to proof of purchase from Albert Heijn, milk from Albert Heijn, Zaanse cutter, bamboo slices, two packets of Blue Band, Albert Heijn stir-fry vegetables, a spring roll and ES beer.He left the Albert Heijn at around 17:43. He had a red plastic C1000 shopping bag with him.At around 6 p.m., victim 1 came into café 2. After he had paid for his drink , he went home. He left café café 2 between 6:15 p.m. and 6:30 p.m.

In this case too, the suspect - who had already been arrested - quickly came into the picture as a possible perpetrator. At his arrest on January 18, 2013 - the one above under 1.1. has already been described - the laptop of victim 1 was found with the suspect.The defendant acknowledged that he had been in the home of victim 1 on that particular day and that he took the laptop and a phone from victim 1 with him. He has topped up his calling credit in the home .This laptop was not properly closed at 6:38 pm, technical research shows .

When he was arrested at 21:00 at the address 2, the suspect brought two plastic bags with groceries, an orange bag from the Blokker and a red bag from the C1000. The Blokker bag contained, among other things, a half-frozen pork roast from Albert Heijn, with a best-before date of 19 January 2013, and a broken-in box containing four frikandels. The items were damp, which could indicate that the items came from a freezer. A loose, unpackaged frikandel was found in the freezer compartment of the refrigerator of victim 1. In the C1000 bag were two packages of Blue Band, a bottle of fabric softener from Hema, with the purchase receipt dated 18 January 2013 at 5:16 pm, a can of beer from Euroshopper, a carton of milk from Albert Heijn, a newspaper Dagblad van het Noorden from Friday January 18, 2013, a newspaper Telegraaf from Friday, January 18, 2013, a spring roll, half whole grain bread from Albert Heijn and Chinese stir-fry vegetables from Albert Heijn.The Court of Appeal finds that these goods exactly match those on which victim 1 had received the decision in the afternoon of 18 January 2013. In the home of victim 1, mainly food from Euroshopper and Albert Heijn were found. The C1000 bag found with the suspect also contained ten opened jars of spices, including salt. From research into the police property of victim 1 reveals that in the cupboard all kinds of jars of herbs and spices were found to be missing.

Blood was found on the pedals of the bicycle on which the suspect rode that day - Friday, January 18, 2013. From research by the NFI it has been found that the blood can come from a victim 1, wherein the match probability is less than one in one billion. The clothing that the suspect was wearing when he was arrested was examined for DNA traces.Blood has also been found on the suspect's shoes, jacket and jogging pants. The sampled traces contain cell material that can originate from victim 1, with a likelihood of match that is less than one in one billion. Based on these results, the court of appeal assumes that the pedals of the bicycle that the suspect used that day, as well as suspects' shoes, jacket and sweatpants had blood from victim 1.

From research has also shown that between 18:38 am and 19:45 pm any business in the mobile phone of the suspect or the mobile phone, landline or laptop from one victim has been, what is striking because suspect in the previous period and subsequently had (frequent) telephone contact with various persons and / or was active on the internet on the laptop of victim 1.

In conclusion, the court considers that:

victim 1 was killed by violence on 18 January 2013 between 6:15 pm and 9:20 pm;
suspect who was in the home of victim 1 on that day ;
on 18 January 2013, the suspect was in possession of the laptop and telephone of victim 1 that he took from the home of victim 1;
the suspect brought with him groceries that corresponded with the groceries that victim 1 had bought that day between 5:00 pm and 6:00 pm and groceries that in terms of brand and type corresponded to products found in victim 's home , just such as two newspapers found with the defendant, similar to the newspapers that victim 1 had received that day from a friend;
on the pedals of the bicycle where the defendant used blood from victim 1 that day;
sat on the shoes, jacket and jogging pants of suspected blood of victim 1;
there was no activity on January 18, 2013 between 6:38 PM and 7:45 PM on the suspect's mobile or on the victim's mobile, landline or laptop 1.

2.2.
Witness statements and reliability testify

The aforementioned witness 2 has stated that she called the suspect on the afternoon of 18 January 2013 between 5 pm and 6 pm. The suspect then said that he had all groceries, including roulade.

witness 6 (hereafter: witness 6) stated that the suspect called him on Friday, January 18, 2013 for an order for cocaine. witness 6 last saw the suspect on the roundabout near the company.From research shows that suspicious from 15:08 am to 15:30 pm on the street 2 has been the building of operation at a certain name 4 for arranging the rental of a room.According to witness 6, he delivered the ordered cocaine to the suspect somewhere between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. This was an order on the puff. The suspect would pay him around 18:00 that day by calling credit. The suspect told him that he still had money too good from people and that he would ensure that witness 6 received his money.

witness 3 stated that the defendant called him that Friday around 7 a.m. The suspect told him that he was going to score food. witness 3 further stated that the suspect called him around 7 p.m. called again and told him that he had bought food, he had a roulade. suspect wanted to show witness 2 that he could also provide groceries, according to witness 3.

The defense has argued that the aforementioned witness statements are unreliable.

The Court of Appeal considers the statements of witness 2, witness 6 and witness 3 to be reliable and useful for the evidence. With regard to the statements of witness 2 and witness 3, reference is made to what the Court of Appeal under the case of victim 2 under 1.2. regarding the reliability of their statements.

The statement of witness 6 is supported by the statement of witness 7 (court: also known as 'witness 7') where he declares that witness 6 had his phone on Friday, January 18, 2013 and that the suspect puffed that day for two decades at witness 6 and that would pay back with calling credit.In addition, the presence of suspect in the afternoon around the time of delivery of the drugs in the immediate vicinity of the company is confirmed by camera images. Furthermore, investigation shows that the suspect was called at 3:12 pm by witness 6, with the telephone from witness 7, and that the suspect was then on street 2.All this fits in with the statement made by witness 6 and supports his statement. The court also has no reason to doubt the reliability of its statement. The defense of the defense is rejected.


2.3.
Reading suspect with regard to the victim's case 1

The defendant denies that he killed victim 1. As shown above, the defendant does not dispute that he was in the home of victim 1 on 18 January 2013 .

According to the accused, the facts are as follows.

The suspect waited a while for the home of victim 1 at address 4 and then entered through the back door, which was not locked. In the house he has topped up his calling credit. He went to Coendersweg for a while and then ran into a boy who sold him a bag of groceries for € 10 and a ball. He went back to the home of victim 1 to see if the calling credit had been topped up in the meantime. It is quite possible that it was a little later than 18:00 that he left the home of victim 1. He's out of the homea laptop and a telephone. He then encountered victim 1 on the street, after which a fight took place between them on the street. He kicked and struck victim 1. He then packed his things and accidentally also brought the bag with groceries from victim 1. When the suspect left, victim 1 - the suspect claims - was still alive.

The Court of Appeal concluded with the court and, as has already been considered above with regard to the manslaughter of victim 2, that during the course of the criminal proceedings, the accused has repeatedly supplemented, changed and made several contradictory statements, which often prove to be contradictory with the evidence. The accused has always adjusted his statements in such a way that they were compatible with the facts that were known to him at that time in the current state of the investigation . That the suspect did that is also shown by the OVC conversation between the suspect and witness 2 on 29 April 2013. The suspect says: Well and if I have to do that ( the court understands: making a statement) then it will be become a statementthat I hit him, kicked him and that I left and that he was still alive ( italics court ).

The court takes over the following considerations from the court:

An example of suspect's changing statements can be found in the statements that the defendant has made about the messages he had in his possession. In his arrest, the suspect said that he had received it from his father .When his father refuted thatthe suspect stated that he had bought the groceries of one name 6. Suspect recognized from a photo name 6.After it appeared that name 6 was stuck on January 18, 2013, the suspect denied that it was name 6. The groceries now came from a different name 6.During the first substantive treatment, the defendant first mentioned that part of the messages did indeed come from victim 1. Another example is the following. With regard to the blood that was found on suspect's clothing, the suspect stated at his arrest that this was because his hand had arrived at address 2 between the doors. The suspect then declares to the police that this blood ended up on his clothing during a fight with a man in location 2. Later, after the suspect was confronted with the fact that blood from victim 1 was found on his clothing, the suspect stated that he fought with victim 1 in location 2 and took his phone with him. This appears to conflict with telecom data.At the hearing on October 29, 2015, the defendant withdrew this statement about fighting in location 2.

The suspect also stated at the hearing of 29 October 2015, among other things, that he encountered victim 1 on the street on 18 January 2013, that he fought there with victim 1 and that he immediately left after the fight. The court finds that this is inconsistent with the NFI 's investigation results concerning the blood clots of victim 1 found on the suspect's right shoe. According to the NFI, this concerns coagulated blood clots that only end up on the shoe after some time after the blood has left the body. In view of these results, it is therefore unlikely that suspect 1 left victim immediately after the fight.

Also declared suspect at the hearing on April 24, 2014 at first that he was the house has left one victim on January 18, 2013 around an hour or 6 in the evening. Later, if he is told that his statement is inconsistent with the telecom data, he declares at the hearing on October 29, 2015, that he has only left the house after the telephone upgrade was finished (6:38 PM).

On the basis of the above, the court, like the court, considers the statements of the accused to be unbelievable. The Court of Appeal will therefore set aside the accused's statements. The court does, however, consider it useful to prove the accused's statement that he was in the home of victim 1 on 18 January 2013 , as he had upgraded his calling credit on site until around half past six that he cycled that day on the witness's bicycle. and that it may be true that blood from victim 1 was found on the pedals of that bicycle and that he took the laptop, a telephone and a bag with messages from victim 1. Support for these statements by the accused can be found in other reliable technical evidence and witness statements found to be reliable.

The defense has argued that blood of victim 1 was found on the pedals of the bicycle on which the suspect cycled, but no blood tracks of the suspect were found in the home of victim 1, which would support the suspect's scenario. The court agrees with the court that this is in no way inconsistent with the scenario outlined by the public prosecutor, since the blood found on the pedals only involved a small amount of blood. After all, the police did not see any blood when examining the bicycle. Only with a Tetrabase test did it become clear that there was blood on the pedals.Furthermore, it is quite conceivable that the possible footprints of the suspect present in the home have been erased by the firefighting activities.

The Court of Appeal finds that, apart from the statement of the accused himself, the criminal file contains no clues for the involvement of someone other than the accused in the death of the victim 1.

On the basis of the above evidence, as well as the evidence used, as they will be included later in the possible supplement to this judgment, and all that has been considered in relation to the victim 1 case is the court, with the court and the Advocate General, who is of the opinion that it was suspect who killed Victim 1.


2.4.
Acquittal of the charges under 1 primary (murder of victim 1)

Primarily, the accused was charged with killing victim 1 prematurely.

The Advocate General has argued that it can be legally and convincingly proven that suspect victim 1 has prematurely killed and that murder is thus involved. The defense has advocated acquittal.

For the assessment framework of premeditation, the Court of Appeal refers to the considerations, such as those above under 1.5. in the case victim 2.

The defendant's statements, now that he denies having robbed victim 1 of his life, have not provided insight into what was dealt with before and at the time of the commission of the offense. Moreover, it is also not possible to ascertain from the file at what time the defendant took the decision to rob Victim 1 of life or what time lapse was involved in that decision-making. In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal does not consider it to be legally proven that the suspect had actually conceived the plan to rob the victim 1 of his life. The court will therefore acquit the accused of the murder of victim 1 charged to him under 1 primarily.


2.5.
Consideration of evidence in relation to the alternative indictment charged under 1 (qualified manslaughter on victim 1)

The defendant is charged under 1 in the alternative, in short, the qualified manslaughter of victim 1.

The defense has disputed that there is qualified manslaughter now that the suspect did not have the intended purpose for that.

The Court of Appeal judges differently and considers this as follows.

From the witness statements of witness 2, witness and witness 3, it appears that in the run-up to the events on January 18, 2013, there was a fight about groceries and money. For example, the witness stated: Messages and food were one of the biggest stumbling blocks. At one point, the suspect also started trumpeting that he didn't get any food and stuff. We were arguing about this. At one point I made sure that there was nothing left in the house. Save yourself. Every time I was the only one who thought about those messages. The rest only thought of drugs. On the night of Thursday January 17, 2013 on Friday January 18, 2013, the witness told the accused that he had to leave the house at address 2.In the morning of January 18, 2013, the witness said to witness 3 that he was going to score food and in the evening the suspect told him that he had obtained food. He had picked up those messages for witness 2. He wanted to show that he could also provide groceries. Suspect drug dealer, witness 6, delivered suspect on the puff drugs during the afternoon. The suspect had to pay him back with call credit at around 6 p.m.

Before he killed victim 1 in his home, the suspect topped up credit at the expense of victim 1. In addition, the defendant took a telephone and the laptop of victim 1 from the home .In addition, the defendant had not only the food that victim 1 had purchased that afternoon, but also food that the court assumed to have come from the home of victim 1. After all, the suspect told witness 2 around 17:00 that he had all groceries, including a roulade. The Court also considers it plausible, given the circumstance that victim 1 intended to prepare a roulade in combination with the best before date of the roulade, namely 19 January 2013, and the half-frozen state of the roulade that this roulade came from the home of victim 1. On the basis of the evidence, the Court of Appeal also finds it plausible that other foodstuffs that the suspect brought with him when he was arrested, such as the opened pots of spices, come from the homeof victim 1. On the basis of the time of the aforementioned telephone conversation (between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m.) with witness 2, the court of appeal also established that the accused had already had access to the victim before home 1 (estimated around 6:30 p.m.) those goods and that he had already appropriated those goods. That theft was the target of the suspect is also evident from the fact that he was topping up his calling credit from the bank account of victim 1, while he had just bought drugs from witness 6 on the puff and those drugs before the end of that afternoon still had to pay with calling credit. In addition, this goal orientation is apparent from the aforementioned statements by witness, witness 2 and witness 3:

The Court of Appeal further assumes that victim 1 came home around 6:38 PM and that he caught the suspect in the home . It can be concluded from the criminal file that there has been a struggle in the kitchen between victim 1 and the suspect. For example, the microwave had shifted and the dentures of victim 1 were on the floor. victim 1 has been hit or punched several times by the suspect - in any case - on the head and in the face. At some point the suspect has tied up 1 arms and ankles. He put a tea towel in victim 1 mouth and tied a portion of the tea towel around victim 1 neck. The suspect has put a plastic bag around the head of victim 1 and tied a nylon cord around his neck. The suspect subsequently strangled or kicked victim 1 against the neck, which broke the tongue bone, larynx and upper ring of victim 1's windpipe. Victim 1 eventually died of suffocation. The defendant thus used substantial violence against victim 1. He then set fire to the body of victim 1.

The external force of imputable mass violence attributable to the suspect is so much focused on the death of victim 1 that the court considers that the suspect has acted knowingly and knowingly.

With regard to the question whether the proven homicide has taken place under the aggravating circumstances, as referred to in Article 288 of the Penal Code , the court considers as follows.

As above under 1.5. The core of this criminal offense consists of a manslaughter that is directly related to another offense, both causally and with regard to the timing of the occurrence of the offense: the other offense (also referred to as the offense of origin) must accompany the homicide to such an extent or closely monitor or precede it that it can be considered to form a whole with the further limitation of the scope of the criminalization being the (additional) intention of the suspect that the homicide is aimed at preparing, making easy - or, in short, ensuring impunity for - that other (origin) fact.

Suspicious actions that afternoon with regard to calling credit and the laptop, a telephone, food and groceries taken away were, from their outward appearance, focused on the intentional and unlawful acquisition of those goods. After all, the defendant appropriated calling credit at the expense of victim 1, food that was at home with victim 1, the laptop and a telephone, but also the messages that victim 1 had done in the afternoon. He went to the house in the afternoonwent from victim 1 and stayed there while victim 1 himself was in cafes and shops and was therefore not at home. The Court of Appeal cannot attach any other conclusion to the actions of the accused than that the accused with the killing of the victim 1 - who must have come home in the possession of the groceries after his last visit to the café - required for punishability of qualified manslaughter intended to make the theft easy or to secure possession of the aforementioned items. On the basis of the actions of the accused as described above, the Court of Appeal considers that the qualified manslaughter of victim 1 charged in the alternative under 1 is therefore legally and convincingly proven.

Proof of declaration

By legal means of proof, whereby the content of every means of evidence - also in parts - is only used as proof of that charged offense to which it apparently relates, and which contains the reasoning facts and circumstances on which the statement of evidence is based, it considers Court of Appeal proved legally and convincingly that in the case with prosecutor number 18-850046-13 under 1 in the alternative and 2 in the alternative and in the case with prosecutor number 18-232368-12 under 1 accused, the accused committed:

Case with parquet number 18-850046-13:

1. In the alternative: on 18 January 2013, in the municipality of Groningen, he intentionally robbed Victim 1 of life, after all, the defendant with that intention,

a cord, or at least an object, arranged around the neck / throat / neck of that victim 1 and / or acts with respect to that cord, at least that object, performed and / or (subsequently) that cord, at least that object, attracted, causing compression and / or strapping and / or compressing violence has occurred on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1, and / or
with his hands the throat of that victim 1 squeezed shut and / or squeezed shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 1 and / or strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 1, as a result of which compressive and / or strapping and / or compressing violence is on the neck / throat and / or mouth floor of that victim 1 arise, and
a cloth in the mouth and / or throat of that victim 1 stuffed / pushed, and
a plastic bag pulled over the head of that victim 1 and then tied that bag with a cord, and
with a hard object struck on the head and / or neck and / or torso and / or other parts of the body of that victim 1, and / or
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on / against the head and / or neck and / or the trunk and / or other parts of the body of that victim,
as a result of which said victim 1 has died,

which homicide described above was followed, accompanied and / or preceded by any criminal offense, namely the theft of a computer (laptop), mobile phone, food and other goods of that victim 1, and which homicide was committed for the purpose of execution to make that fact easy and / or, in the event of being caught red-handed, to assure himself of impunity and / or the possession of the illegally obtained person;

2 more in the alternative:

he intentionally robbed victim 2 of his life in the municipality of Groningen on 18 January 2013, after all, with that intention,

with his hands the throat of that victim 2 pressed shut and / or pressed shut and / or a (so-called) strangulation applied to that victim 2 and / or strangulation / strangulation actions and / or strangulation by means of the hands / arms and / or with the help of other objects applied and / or applied to the neck / throat of and / or with that victim 2, as a result of which compressive and / or strapping violence has arisen on the neck / throat of that victim 2, and
beaten, punched, kicked and / or kicked on the head and / or neck and / or other parts of the body of that victim, and
with a sharp and / or pointed object, several times, stabbed and / or cut into the neck / neck region and / or arm of that victim,
as a result of which the aforementioned victim 2 has died;

Case with parquet number 18-232368-12 (attached):

1. on 31 March 2012 in Groningen together and in association with another, for the purpose of unlawful appropriation, has taken away a bicycle belonging to victim 1.

The Court of Appeal considers that it has not been proven what the defendant has been charged more or differently than has been proven above, so that this should be acquitted.

Punishability of the proven

In the case with case number 18-850046-13 declared under 1 in the alternative in the case yields:

manslaughter, preceded, accompanied and / or followed by an offense and committed for the purpose of facilitating the execution of that offense, and / or, if caught red-handed, to himself or other participants in that offense either the impunity or the assure possession of the illegally obtained person.

In the case with parquet number 18-850046-13, among other things, proven in the alternative, yields:

manslaughter.

The proven in the case with parquet number 18-232368-12 proven under 1 yields:

theft by two or more unified persons.

Punishability of the suspect

With regard to the person of the suspect, various reports have been drawn up by behavioral experts.

The file first of all contains a report from the name 6 Baan Centrum dated 16 September 2013 in which no conclusions could be drawn due to the fact that the accused did not cooperate in the investigation . In addition, the file includes a Pro Justitia report of 14 March 2016 released by Dr. LH.WM Kaiser, psychiatrist , a Pro Justitia report released on 22 February 2016 by D. Breuker, GZ psychologist and a Pro Justitia report released on 10 August 2018 by JM Oudejans, psychologist. All experts are registered as NRGD. Experts Kaiser and Breuker answered written questions from the defense on 21 November 2017 and 8 October 2017 respectively. Afterwards they re-examined the suspect and requested additional reports at the court's request: Kaiser on 7 July 2018 and Breuker on 18 June 2018. The three aforementioned experts were heard at the court hearing of 6 February 2019. They have explained their findings and conclusions.

Experts Kaiser and Breuker - unlike expert Oudejans - come to the conclusion that, in short, the suspect suffers from an antisocial personality disorder and that it is also possible to speak of psychopathy .

Expert Kaiser reports on this, among other things: “The person concerned is indirectly dominant, despite the adapted friendly speaking style; he has a self-assured presentation, initially as it were to determine his position. He tells us that he comes from a culture in which people do not show themselves or show their emotions . He thereby declares that he talks emotionless , as if he is reporting. He tells a lot to the researcher , but does not provide complete openness. He tolerates all questions from researcher , tolerates comments and does not respond defensively. He has his impulses under control. The person concerned is a smooth talker during research ; he can tell a lot and shows noneemotions but he also shows no suffering. He is able to maintain and manipulate a facade. He describes it as a culture. There is little contact growth with him.

The current research shows that the person involved has a prominent psychopathy with emotional superficiality, absence of guilt feelings and a lacunar function of conscience alongside the antisocial side in his personality.

Researcher comes to the conclusion of psychopathy for the person concerned , based in part on the PCL-R. As far as to be found, the problems have already been present at a young age: according to the person concerned, he was a difficult adolescent. The person concerned committed thefts from his youth. He later visited house parties and used XTC and his crime increased. When person was sixteen years old, he left the parentalhome and stayed with friends, in shelters and with an aunt. He has been convicted many times and has been imprisoned a lot. He has not had a stable bond. He led a life in which he used the other for self-profit and was calculated. He had few social norms and was not socially bound. His way of life was superficial, focused on the momentary and material. He used cunning and cheating to make a profit. In doing so, he makes choices, considers, weighs his chances and can devise and implement complex action strategies from there . He takes little responsibility for the other, violates the rights of the other without being inhibited by empathy. It is not reckless indifference but calculated profit.

Breuker expert reports include: "There is a burdensome past aggression by father in the family. From adolescence he has been addicted to cannabis in particular and later also to cocaine and heroin. The person concerned is familiar with an antisocial lifestyle and with an extensive judicial past. There has been a blurring of standards as a result of his criminal and antisocial lifestyle. The person concerned talks about committing criminal offenses and inappropriate behavior (for example, using drugs in the children's favor)) good. He does not feel guilty and he is not ashamed of his judicial past. He calculates what he does and weighs his behavioral choices well. In particular, antisocial personality traits are observed.

The PCL-R was scored for the person concerned; during taking, he achieves a score of 30-32 (with a max of 40) on the 20 items, which indicates the presence of psychopathy .

During the investigation , no morbid disorder of the mental capacity can be diagnosed in the person concerned, but an inadequate development in the form of an antisocial personality disorder. This means that the person involved has a limited lived-in emotional life with little real empathy and empathy, vulnerability and egocentrism. The person concerned is well able to color himself as a chameleon to his environment, making him emotionaldeficits sometimes do not immediately stand out. He has average intelligence and superficial social skills, is talkative and can present himself in a charming and friendly way. Underlying this socially desirable attitude, however, there is a blurred sense of norm, which means that he finds antisocial and criminal behavior normal and does not feel burdened about this. He can also react aggressively when he is thwarted or when something is said or done that he does not like. The person concerned calculates what he does. He makes informed decisions. There is also psychopathy which reflects the cold, manipulative and self-centered personality and the irresponsible, anti-social lifestyle.

Both experts explained at the court hearing how they arrived at their findings. At the hearing, they substantiated their reasoning that they - even after exchanging the positions of the three experts at the hearing - to stick to their conclusions with regard to the previously identified disorder.

The court follows the Kaiser and Breuker experts in their conclusions. Their investigations and reports are complete and they have based their investigations on interviews with the accused during different phases of the criminal case, as well as on other investigations , including the police report, as stated on page 3 of the Kaiser report from 2016 and on page 8 of the Breuker report from 2016. The Court of Appeal considers their conclusions to be compatible.

In the opinion of the court, the Oudejans report has limitations. For example, Oudejans has stated that it did not have access to the police report and that it did not consider it necessary for the formulation of its findings. As a result, Oudejans was not able, unlike Kaiser and Breuker, to involve the content of the police file in taking a critical attitude towards the suspect. In the opinion of the court, it is obvious that the police file should be included in the investigation . The NIFP Ambulatory Forensic Psychological Investigation and Reporting in Criminal Law (Adult and Juvenile) Directive also states that an investigatormust have the police report. Moreover, Oudejans only spoke with the suspect at a later stage than Kaiser and Breuker. Based on the aforementioned considerations, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that more weight should be given to the findings and conclusions of the Kaiser and Breuker experts.

The Court of Appeal therefore adopts the conclusions of those experts Kaiser and Breuker with regard to the suspected disorder in the suspect. The Court of Appeal therefore considers it plausible that the suspect suffers from an antisocial personality disorder, such that there is also psychopathy . The court sees the serious substance addiction that was the case with the suspect before and at the time of the proven facts as part and consequence of the antisocial personality disorder.

The question is whether at the time of the manslaughter in the early morning of 18 January 2013 and the qualified manslaughter on victim 1 in the early evening hours of the same day, the defendant was fully or partially accountable.

Experts Kaiser and Breuker find in the nature of the disorder a reason to conclude that the disorder did not prevent the suspect from making their own choices.

To answer that question, the Court of Appeal first of all finds that, according to the conclusions of Kaiser and Breuker, the accused is affected with the disorder described above. Expert Kaiser indicated at the hearing of the court that she considered it desirable, assuming that the accused had committed the facts, to speak with the accused about what had actually been dealt with in him at the time of committing the facts, partly in view of the manner on which the victims were killed, as shown by the finding of the bodies and the investigation of the bodies. This conversation with the suspect was not possible due to the denial of the suspect. The experts were therefore unable to draw concrete conclusions after an investigation of the suspect regarding the facts.

In those circumstances, it is up to the court to give an opinion on the extent to which the offenses can be imputed. The Court of Appeal considers it proven that on 18 January 2013, the accused killed two people at different times, during which time financial gain played a role during the second manslaughter. The Court of Appeal considers it plausible that this financial gain was directly related to the financing of the addiction of the accused. After all, it is not in dispute that the suspect was (for years) addicted to hard drugs in the period prior to the offenses and had also used drugs on January 18, 2013 and subsequently bought them again. From the statements of witnesses that the defendant experienced during that period, it follows that there was excessive drug use. Witness 2, his former partner, tells that the cocaine suspect became a paranoia. From the testimony of witnesses it also follows that on January 18, 2013, the accused had an urgent housing problem. It also follows from the statement of witness 2, among other things, that the suspect was busy insuring food around the time of killing victim 1. On the evening of 18 January 2013, the police found the suspect in his arrest in an excited state for the suspect who is no longer accessible to the suspecthome of witness witness. At the time of the arrest, the defendant had a number of plastic bags with groceries, including food.

The Court of Appeal found that there were several acts of violence during the manslaughter of both victims. With regard to the manslaughter of victim 2, the court cannot determine the reason for the manslaughter due to lack of information in the file and of the suspect. A lot of excessive violence was applied to victim 1 in particular. The Court of Appeal assumes that personal financial gain, appropriation of calling credit and other goods, including food, from victim 1, was a priority at the time of the inflicting of that violence and the killing of victim 1. It is presumably that the financing of the addiction of the suspect was leading in this, in addition to demonstrating to his housemates that he could really provide for a living.

The above leads the court to the conclusion that the manslaughter of victim 1 is directly related to the funding of the addiction of the suspect. The Court of Appeal considers it plausible that the serious antisocial personality disorder with which the defendant was treated at the time of the commission of the offense had an effect on the choices made by the defendant in the way of financing this addiction and related housing and survival problems. At the time of the qualified manslaughter of victim 1, serious antisocial personality and psychopathyplayed a role in that sense. The Court of Appeal considers it plausible that given the nature and characteristics of that established disorder and the circumstances under which victim 1 was killed, this fact can be attributed to the accused to a lesser extent.

The foregoing leads to the conclusion - now that the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there is reason to attribute the qualified manslaughter to victim 1 only to a lesser extent - that there is a criminal offender, now that no grounds for exclusion are deemed to exist.

Imposition of punishment and measure

The punishment to be reported below is in accordance with the nature and seriousness of the proven facts and the circumstances in which those facts were committed, also in view of the person of the suspect, as the investigation at the hearing showed.

Imposition of a penalty

On January 18, 2013, the accused intentionally had two people in a horrific and violent manner in their own homerobbed of life. First, he killed Victim 2 in the early morning of that day. The reasons why she had to leave her life, even in the appeal phase, have not become clear. Suspect has strangled victim 2 or punched, beaten or kicked against the neck and stabbed her with a sharp object in the neck, as a result of which she died. On the same day, in the evening, suspect 1 killed victim. The accused has done this - as is apparent from what has been considered above - with the intention of being able to commit theft of credit, a laptop, a telephone and food. At the expense of someone else's life, the suspect merely thought of his own interests. The way in which victim 1 was killed can hardly be described with a pen. The accused has applied horrifying evoking forms of violence to victim 1, who was ultimately killed by suffocation. As if that was not enough, the suspect set fire to the body of victim 1. In his actions the suspect was ruthless and ruthless.

Both victim 2 and victim 1, 66 and 71 years old at the time of their death, were defenseless victims. It is likely that they have been in a lot of pain in their last moments and have had to face fear of death. Both victim 2 and victim 1 provided shelter to the accused in the period prior to the proven facts. The court blames him for the fact that the persons who tried to help him were killed, are charged by the court. The defendant inflicted great and irreparable suffering on the relatives . The fact that the precise circumstances surrounding the death of their family member will never become clear, means that extra pain will be inflicted on them and it will be even harder to deal with their death.

In addition, the court takes into account that the suspect has not taken responsibility for his actions. Understanding of responsibility can, under certain circumstances, give rise to some mildness in the courts, because prosecution is partly aimed at bringing the suspect to repentance. In the case of the suspect, that goal has not (yet) been achieved. For the time being there is no reason for leniency.

The intentional killing of another person is the most serious irreversible violation of the highest legal right, namely the right to life. Through his actions, the suspect has deprived both victim 2 and victim 1 of that right and thus their most substantial possession. In addition to the major consequences for the relatives , a life offense also causes a shock in society and reinforces feelings of fear and insecurity. Due to the nature and seriousness of these offenses, a different penalty modality than a lengthy prison sentence is out of the question.

In addition, although the aforementioned facts did not fall within the scope of the aforementioned facts, the suspect was guilty of theft of a bicycle on 31 March 2012 together with his co-suspect. By acting in this way, the suspect has shown that he has no respect for the property of another.

The Court of Appeal took into account, when determining the criminal offense in suspects, that the accused, according to an extract from the judicial documentation register of 8 January 2019 concerning him, was repeatedly and irrevocably convicted of criminal offenses, inter alia several times in respect of property crimes (whether or not with a component of violence), the co-perpetration of an attempt at severe mistreatment and arson.

With regard to the person of the suspect, the Court of Appeal also took into account the personal circumstances of the suspect, insofar as this was apparent from the investigation at the hearing, including in particular the established disorders of the suspect and the circumstance that the Court of Appeal accused the fact explained under 1 reduced.

With regard to the charges under 1, the court of appeal comes to a different statement of evidence than the court. When determining the duration of the prison sentence, this leads to an increase compared to the sentence imposed by the court. Qualified manslaughter is one of the most serious crimes known in the Criminal Code . As with murder, the legislator has threatened this offense with the most severe punishment ; life imprisonment or a temporary prison sentence of a maximum of thirty years.

On the basis of the above, the Court of Appeal considers the punishment demanded by the Advocate General appropriate and commanded. The court will impose that sentence, a prison sentence of 24 years, from the point of view of standards enforcement and retaliation.

Reasonable period

The defense has argued that the reasonable period as referred to in art. 6, paragraph 1, European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) has been exceeded and that this violation must be taken into account in the imposition of sentences.

The starting point in this case, in which the suspect is in pre-trial detention in connection with the proven facts, is that the hearing at first instance must be completed with a final judgment within sixteen months after the reasonable period has commenced and the treatment at the hearing on appeal must be completed with a final judgment within sixteen months after appeal has been lodged, unless there are special circumstances, such as the complexity of a case, the influence of the suspect and / or his counsel or counsel on the matter. the course of proceedings and the way in which the case has been dealt with by the competent authorities.

The Court of Appeal considered the following with regard to the total course of the proceedings in this case.

The reasonable period at first instance started on January 19, 2013 with the suspect being put in insurance. The final judgment in first instance was given on 2 June 2016. This is three years and four months after the reasonable period has commenced. On 15 June 2016, the accused appealed against that judgment. The final judgment is given on 6 March 2019. This is more than two years and eight months after the appeal was lodged. In both instances there is therefore a longer term than the aforementioned term of sixteen months per instance.

However, there are special circumstances in this case. There is extensive investigation into the violent death of two people who were killed at different times and in different places. The suspect did not want to explain the substance of the facts of which he was suspected until the court session of 24 April 2014. As a result, all kinds of research had to be conducted afterwards , including a reconstruction. In the appeal phase, a large number of investigative wishes apply because of the defensehave been submitted, namely the hearing of 30 witnesses or experts. These were partly implemented after allocation. The defense has also requested that a number of months be delayed before planning the substantive treatment. Subsequently, the defense unannounced and just before the session of 30 August 2018 the court forwarded the report of expert Oudejans, which resulted in the wish of defense and the Public Prosecution Service to hear all experts at the hearing, which led to a renewed arrest.

On the basis of the above considerations, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, in view of the aforementioned special circumstances in this case, the reasonable period has been exceeded, but that the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that no consequence should be attached to that finding and that this determination will suffice.

The posting measure

In addition, the posting measure with the order for nursing must be imposed. The Court of Appeal bases this decision on the following.

The Court of Appeal first and foremost states that four conditions must be met if a suspect based on Articles 37 (2) and (3), 37a and 37b of the Penal Code can be imposed with the decision to make the provision available with an order for nursing:

at the time of committing the offense there must be a defective development or a morbid disorder of his mental capacities;
the relevant fact must concern a crime for which a legal term of imprisonment of four years or more has been imposed, or belong to one of the crimes as specifically mentioned in the law (Article 37a, first paragraph, under 1 of the Criminal Code ) ;
the safety of others or the general safety of persons or goods must require the imposition of the measure;
such a measure can only be imposed after the criminal court has submitted a reasoned, dated and signed opinion from at least two behavioral experts from different disciplines, including a psychiatrist , who have investigated the suspect.
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the aforementioned conditions for imposing the measure of posting with an order for nursing have been met. The Court of Appeal bases this judgment partly on the two aforementioned reports by psychiatrist Kaiser and psychologist Breuker.

As has already been established above, the suspect has an antisocial personality disorder and there is also psychopathy . These disorders also existed at the time of the proven facts.

This case also involves crimes for which, according to the legal description, a prison sentence of more than four years has been imposed.

Regarding the chance of a recurrence, Kaiser reported in 2016 that she cannot estimate the chance of a repeat offense because the suspect denies the charges, but given his psychopathy , the chance that he will return to circumstances with criminal people suffering violence is high estimated. The suspect has good intentions but there are no protective factors. He shows no empathy with the victims of the past crimes. The suspect does have some sense of the nature of his psychopathology but has no insight into the scope and risks thereof. Psychopathy suspectswill, in Kaiser's assessment, make material interests take precedence over others' interests. Kaiser further states in her report that the suspect is not motivated for intensive insightful treatment or schema therapy aimed at changing his personality. It is the expert's expectation that there is little chance that the suspect will learn from a treatment. At the hearing of the court on 6 February 2019, Kaiser replied to questions from the court that the suspect has shown some improvement in recent times, so that you could say that there is now an entrance for treatment. She also indicated at the hearing that aggression appears to have played a role in the charges, which could be related to the suspect's antisocial personality disorder.

In 2016, Breuker reported that a number of clinical risk factors were found in the suspect that were related to the antisocial personality disorder, including limited empathy, blurred awareness of standards, self-centeredness and limited suffering and problem awareness. There are unstable living conditions in the area of ​​living, work and relationships. The suspect is connected to a drug network from which he does not seem to want to distance himself. He earns his living through drug trafficking. He experiences little suffering and has no intention of changing his lifestyle. Therefore, there is little treatment potential. The risk factors can reinforce each other. In addition, there are too few protective ones factors, which increases the chance of a repeat offense, says Breuker.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, in view of the content of the aforementioned psychological and psychiatric reports, the established disorders and the effect thereof, the special seriousness of the offenses committed and the previous many convictions of the accused since his youth, also for violent crimes, that is of such a recurrence risk that the protection of society requires the imposition of the measure, in the sense that the safety of others, or the general safety of persons, requires the imposition of the measure with a warrant for nursing.

In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, in view of the lack of insight into his faulty development with the suspect, no other framework is conceivable within which a treatment of the suspect is sufficiently guaranteed than a provision with nursing by the government.

In view of the provisions of Article 38e of the Criminal Code , the Court of Appeal finds that the proven offenses are qualified manslaughter and manslaughter crimes that are directed against or endanger the inviolability of the body of one or more persons, so that the total duration of the posting is not limited to the duration of four years.

Applicable legal requirements

The Court of Appeal has considered Articles 37a, 37b, 47, 57, 63, 287, 288 and 310 of the Criminal Code .

These regulations have been applied as they applied at the time of the proven explanation.

DECISION

The court:

Declares the suspect and the public prosecutor inadmissible in the appeal, in so far as it is directed against the decision regarding the charges charged in case 2 - 36328 - 12 under case number 2 and 3.

Annuls the judgment to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court and, in so far, it does justice again:

Declares that it has not been proven that the accused committed the charge in the case with prosecutor number 18-850046-13 under 1 primary and 2 primary and subsidiary, and acquits the accused of this.

Declares, as considered above, proven that the suspect in the case with parquet number 18-850046-13 under 1 subsidiary and 2 more subsidiary and in the case with parquet number 18-232368-12 under 1 charged.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares it punishable in the case with public prosecutor 18-850046-13 under 1 subsidiary and 2 more in the alternative and in the case with public prosecutor number 18-232368-12 under 1 proven, qualifies as mentioned above and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for 24 (twenty-four) years .

Recommends that the time taken by the accused before the implementation of that decision only in Article 27, paragraph, or Article 27a of the Code of Criminal will be referred to as pre-trial detention was spent in the execution of the sentence of imprisonment reduced , in so far as that time has not already been deducted from another penalty.

Orders the suspect to be made available and orders him to be nursed by the government.

Thus pointed out by

LT Wemes, chairman,

J. Dolfing and A. van Holten, counselors,

in the presence of Mr. SM Nicolai, Registrar,

and pronounced in open court on 6 March 2019.

1 In the case with parquet number 18-850046-13.
2 In the footnotes to be mentioned below, reference is always made to the page numbers of the 01TGO13002 file of Police North Netherlands (TGO Waldeck).
3 Page A 449 et seq
4 Page A 473.
5 Page B 144 et seq.
6 Page B 879 et seq
7 Page A 225 and page A 740 et seq
8 Page A 473 et seq
9 Page A 743 et seq
10 Page A 749.
11 Page 19 of the supplement to the final file and the statement of the accused included in the official report for the hearing of 29 October 2015 of the multiple chamber in the Northern Netherlands court.
12 See pages A 925 et seq. And A 749 et seq., Considered in conjunction and interrelation.
13 see page C 196, page C 17 et seq. And page A 553 et seq
14 Page B 246 et seq. And page B 493 et ​​seq
15 Page B 144.
16 Page B 950.
17 If one speaks of "a match probability of less than 1 in 1 billion", this always means: "the probability that a randomly unknown person matches the DNA profile is smaller than one in one billion". See page B 40.
18 Page B 956.
19 Page B 957.
20 Page B 1321 et seq
21 Page B 959.
22 Page B 1298 et seq
23 Page B 1278 et seq
24 Page B. 1299 et seq
25 Page C 414.
26 Page A 1748 et seq
27 Page A 1722 et seq
28 Page A 1953 et seq
29 witness was heard on January 18, 2013 at 10:45 pm, see page A 1722, and witness 2 on January 19, 2013 at 00:20 am, see page A 1748.
30 Page A 1045 et seq
31 Page C 407 et seq
32 OVC stands for recording confidential communication . See page C 434 et seq
33 Page A 298.
34 Page C 441.
35 The official report at the hearing on 24 April 2014 of the multiple criminal chamber in the Northern Netherlands court and page 19 of the supplement to the final file.
36 The official report at the hearing on 29 October 2015, 30 October 2015 and 19 November 2015 of the multiple criminal chamber in the Northern Netherlands court (page 5).
37 See the official report findings on page 73 of the supplement to the final file.
38 See the official report (investigation of pantyhose victim victim 2) page 88 et seq. Of the supplement to the final file.
39 Statement witness 9 page A 966 et seq. Of the criminal file and witness wife, page A 954 et seq. Of the criminal file.
40 See again witness testimony witness 9 A 966 et seq. Of the criminal file, as well as the statement of witness witness 10, page A 1097 of the criminal file.
41 The defendant stated at the hearing of the court of 24 April 2018 that it is half an hour by bike from address 2 to address 3.
42 See Supreme Court 28 February 2012, ECLI: NL: HR: 2012: BR2342 , Supreme Court 15 October 2013, ECLI: NL: HR: 2013: 963 and Supreme Court 23 September 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 2761 .
43 Page A 632.
44 Page B 319 et seq
45 Page B 325 and following and B B 1004 and following
46 Page B 1004 et seq
47 See the statement of witness AC witness 5 on page A 1383 et seq
48 Page C 111 et seq
49 According to the Albert Heijn publicly available website, this is a whole-grain bread, see https://www.ah.nl/producten/product/wi48712/ah-zaanse-snijder-volkoren-half.
50 Page D 166 and 168.
51 Page C 114 et seq
52 See the witness statement 11 on page A 1403 and following
53 See the witness witness testimony 12 on page A 1458 et seq
54 Page B 21.
55 The official report at the hearing on 29 October 2015, 30 October 2015 and 19 November 2015 of the multiple criminal chamber in the Northern Netherlands court, to the extent that this includes the statement of the accused.
56 Page A 196.
57 Page B 307.
58 Page B 273 and following and page B 20 and following
59 Page B 474 et seq
60 Page B 501, page B 1299 et seq. And the statement of the accused included in the official report for the hearing on 29 October 2015, 30 October 2015 and 19 November 2015 of the multiple criminal chamber in the Northern Netherlands court
61 Page B 246 et seq
62 Page B 945 et seq
63 Page A 192 to A 196.
64 Page A 1820.
65 Page A 2061 and following
66 Page C 99 et seq
67 Page A 2061 and following
68 The call data on page C 404D shows that suspect witness 3 called at 7:47:15 PM.
69 Page A 953 et seq
70 Page A 1962.
71 On page A 2055 and following
72 Painga C 397.
73 Page C 490.
74 See minutes of findings of 20 January 2013, included on page A 740 et seq. Of the aforementioned file, including the relationship of the reporting officer.
75 See page A 2049 of the file, including the declaration of name 5.
76 See statement of the suspect dated January 30, 2012, page 312 et seq
77 See statement of suspect dated January 30, 2012, page 312 et seq
78 See statement by the defendant during A 741.
79 See statement of suspect page A 310.
80 See statement of suspect page A 319.
81 See also combined chrono list on page C 404D of criminal file.
82 Statement made by the accused at the hearing on 29 October 2015
83 Page B 502.
84 Page B 503.
85 Page A 1730.
86 Page A 1731.
87 Statement by the accused included in the official report for the hearing on 29 October 2015, 30 October 2015 and 19 November 2015 of the multiple criminal chamber in the Northern Netherlands court.
88 Page A 1820.
89 See page B 307.
90 See page B 341 and B 348.
91 The PCL-R / PCL-YV is the standard for determining the degree of psychopathy . The PCL-R / PCL-YV measures psychopathy according to the concept of Hare (source: Ambulatory forensic psychological examination guideline and reporting in criminal law (adult and juvenile) of the NIFP).
Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 2051