Content indication
Interim Access Agreement . Do "relocation criteria" apply if parents do not have joint custody ? Weighing of interests.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-19
Publication date
2019-03-05
Case number
200.243.023 / 01
Procedure
Appeals for interim relief
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
EB 2019/55
Statement
judgment

___________________________________________________________________ _ _

GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM

Department of Civil and Tax Law Team III (Family and Juvenile Law)

Case number: 200.243.023 / 01 SKG

Case number Court of Amsterdam: C / 13/648428 KG / ZA 18-503 MvdV / EK

judgment of the multiple family room of 19 February 2019

on

the father ,

living at location A,

APPELLANT in principal appeal,

also INITIATED in incidental appeal,

lawyer: M. Yamali in Amsterdam,

against:

the mother ,

living at place B,

INITIATED in principal appeal,

also APPELLANTE in incidental appeal,

lawyer: ML Spekschoor in Amsterdam.


1 The appeal proceedings
Parties are hereinafter referred to as the father and mother respectively.

By summons on 12 July 2018, the father appealed against a judgment of the preliminary relief judge in the Amsterdam District Court on 15 June 2018, given in summary proceedings between the father as plaintiff and the mother as defendant.

The apple summons contains the grievances.

The parties then submitted the following documents:

- statement of defense, also statement of grievances in incidental appeal, with productions;

- deed, called "supplement to answer and supplement to incidental apple" on the part of the mother , with productions.

The father has concluded that the court will partially annul the contested judgment and yet - enforceable in stock - will order the mother to move back or at least to a place within a radius of 20 kilometers from place A and to charge the father with joint authority so that child 3 does not lose contact with the father , ordering the mother to pay the costs of the proceedings at first instance and the appeal.

In principle, the mother - as the court understands - has applied for the claims to be rejected. In an incidental appeal, the mother concluded that the court of appeal would set aside the judgment under appeal and again lawfully determine that the father is inadmissible in his claims, or at least that his claims should be rejected, with the father being ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings. and in the follow-up costs in first instance and on appeal.

In an appeal on an incidental basis, the father concluded that the mother was inadmissible , or at least dismissed the claims, ordering the mother to pay the costs of the proceedings and the subsequent costs in first instance and on appeal.

At the hearing on 17 January 2019, the parties had their lawyers argue, Mr Yamali, on the basis of pleading notes that have been submitted. Both parties have brought productions into question.

Finally, judgment was requested.


2 Facts

2.1
In the judgment under 2.1 up to and including 2.7, the preliminary relief judge summarized the facts that he took as the starting point for the assessment of the case.

These facts are not in dispute and therefore serve the court as a starting point. In summary and supplemented where necessary with other facts that arise from the parties' uncontested arguments or the content of productions that they do not (sufficiently) contest to which they refer in support of their claims, the facts amount to the following.


2.2
Parties have had a relationship and have three children together:

- child 1, born in 2009;

- child 2, born in 2010 and

- child 3, born in 2011.

The father has recognized the children . The mother only exercises authority over the children .


2.3
child 1 and child 2 have been placed out of home . child 3 lives with the mother .


2.4
At this moment the following access arrangement applies between the father and the children:

once every six weeks he has supervised contact with child 3 for one hour. Once in the twelve weeks at this association also Child 1 and Child 2 present. In these dealings are the mother of the father and sister of the father present. The guidance of the interaction is facilitated by Spirit Pleegzorg Noord in Amsterdam.


2.5
The mother moved to place B on 21 May 2018 with child 3 . The mother 's lawyer announced the move by telephone to the father 's lawyer on 14 May 2018 and sent a confirmation thereof by e-mail on 15 May 2018. In her e-mail, the woman's lawyer stated that the relationship between the father and child 3 are not affected by the move . When dealing only between child 3 and the father , this can be facilitated by thehouse in Utrecht or Arnhem, according to the lawyer.


2.6
By email of 25 May 2018, the family manager of the parties stated:

“(…) It is clear that Youth Protection has great concerns about the parenting skills of father . To date, father has not been able to provide a safe living and parenting situation and a stable living situation for himself.

Youth protection accepts the mother 's decision to move and continue to provide assistance for herself and child 3. It is positive that mother wants to continue to facilitate the current access arrangement and has taken action therein .

The family manager has also reported that the mother has always facilitated the interaction between child 3 and the father and has always worked with Youth Protection .


2.7
By e-mail of 28 May 2018, Mr. X stated on behalf of Spirit Pleegzorg Noord:

“ (…) Unfortunately, there has been a very unsafe situation for mother in recent years (and still today) . Father is constantly trying to get in touch with mother and child 3. (...) Finally, I would like to note that mother has been more busy too far off place A move . She has put a lot of energy into achieving this. Mother has always had the full cooperation and support of Spirit in this. For mother and child 3, this move is a gift from heaven (...). Motherhas even arranged that father can continue to see child 3 in the parental home in Arnhem under the same agreements. (...). "


2.8
In an e-mail message of 10 October 2018, Ms Y stated on behalf of Youth Probation Service / Youth Protection Maastricht-Heuvelland:

“ (...) Mother is doing her utmost to create a safe and healthy place to live for A (court: child 3) . She by no means stands in the way of A's visit arrangement with her father .

However, father has not appeared on the agreed visit time in the past period.

However, mother has invested time and money in this to comply with the arrangement as agreed. She certainly wants to continue to invest in this, but we think it would be a good idea to start a guided visit arrangement in the south. We are thinking, for example, of Bureau Jeugdzorg Heerlen or Maastricht. (...). "


2.9
In the period from July up to and including October 2018, there was no interaction between him and child 3 for father- motivated reasons .


3 Review
In principal and incidental appeal


3.1.
The father has applied to the preliminary relief judge of the Amsterdam District Court for the mother to be temporarily prohibited from moving , or at least to be ordered to live within a radius of 20 kilometers from the father 's place of residence. The father has also requested that he be partly charged with the authority over child 3. Finally, he requested that the mother be ordered to pay the costs. The preliminary relief judge has refused the requested provisions.


3.2
The mother has complaint one of its cross-appeal as the most far-reaching argument argued that the father inadmissible must be dismissed in its claims, because he has no authority has therefore no relocation ban can ask and that he has no compelling interest more his claims because the mother has since moved . That argument fails. The circumstance that the father has no authority over child 3 does not affect the fact that the preliminary relief judge, and the appeals court, has the option of taking an order measure if it appears that the interests of the child3 are seriously compromised by the move . The fact that the mother has moved in the meantime does not mean that the father no longer has an urgent interest to have this move tested in view of the interests of child 3 . The court of appeal is therefore of the opinion that the father is admissible in his claims.


3.3
The father challenges the decision of the court in preliminary relief proceedings and the justification based on it with nine complaints. The grievances 1 to 4 and 6 to 9 basically amount to the fact that the preliminary relief judge wrongly did not forbid the mother to move . The court will deal with these complaints together.


3.4
The mother only exercises authority over child 3. In principle, she therefore has the authority to care for and educate child 3; this right also includes choosing the place of residence of the child 3. The mother thereby bears the responsibility for the mental and physical well-being and safety of child 3, as well as promoting the development of her personality. The powers of the mother are limited by, at least the mothermust, when using its powers, take into account the obligation to promote the development of ties with the father and child 3. Furthermore, the mother is obliged to consult the father before making an important decision regarding child 3 .

In the light of these principles, a decision to move the mother can stand in the way of the interests of child 3 being seriously compromised or the development of ties with the father being seriously damaged.


3.5
Now that the mother exercises sole authority , there is no room for full application of the criteria that apply to moving with a minor child as requested by the father and further elucidated by him at the hearing on appeal. These criteria relate to the situation that parents exercise joint custody .


3.6
The father argues that the interests of child 3 are compromised when moving house . However, he does not substantiate what these interests are. In the preliminary judgment of the court it cannot be said that the relocation of the mother and child 3 puts the bond between the father and child 3 at risk. In the last year the man interacted with child 3 once every six weeks , with both brothers of child 3 also present once every twelve weeks . The interaction of the father with the threeChildren parties together may, even after the removal of the mother with child place third in the same way as now, also of the family father can stay involved. The mother will then come to place A with child 3.

If the man only has contact with child 3, this contact could no longer take place in place A but in Arnhem or, as the court understands, in Heerlen or Maastricht. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the mother has sufficiently substantiated that this is actually possible and that she will continue to cooperate in this. The mother with the handling house had in Arnhem and contact the child welfare worker instead B tries intercourse possible to Heerlen and Maastricht. This form of association will entail more costs for the fatherthan has been the case up to now and also more than the amount of € 15, which has been assumed by the preliminary relief judge. However, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the man has insufficiently substantiated that he is unable to pay these costs, certainly not when it is taken into account that the woman is prepared not to claim child support so that the man can use this money for the handling costs . Moreover, at the hearing on appeal it became apparent that the father now works full-time, so that it is plausible that he has more income than has been the case so far. The for the father to deal withthe court does not consider the associated costs unreasonably onerous. Nor has he substantiated that the father can not be expected to incur costs to see child 3.

Opposite the interest of the father in dealing with child 3 is the interest of the mother and child 3 to build a new life (far) outside place A. This importance is confirmed by the e-mails from the family manager and Spirit that the mother has submitted. The father did not substantiate why the content of these e-mails should not be taken into account . To the extent that the father has argued that the relocation is a limitation of the possibilities of extending the access arrangementmeans, the court considers that an extension in these proceedings does not apply. Moreover, it is not clear that only the travel distance will stand in the way of an extension and the mother 's lawyer has already written in her e-mail of 15 May 2018 that mother is prepared to facilitate an extension of the access arrangements .

That mother escapes assistance , as the father has further argued, is not apparent from anything. The Court of Appeal also considers it irrelevant for its consideration that the Council report expressed concerns about the mother . This report is already four years old and it has not become plausible that the same concerns about the mother still exist (to the same extent) .


3.7
The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that there is no reason to prohibit the mother from moving or, since she has already moved , to move back to another area .


3.8
The father also has a complaint against the decision of the preliminary relief judge to reject his claim that he will be co- charged with custody of child 3 (complaint 5). The father has explained that he also requests joint custody on appeal . In the absence of further substantiation, the court understands that he is requesting the provisional joint authority , because in this way he wants to ensure that he will have contact with child 3. However, the father is in principle entitled to have contact with the child3 even without being charged with authority . Seen in this light, the court comes to the conclusion that the father has no interest in this claim. Whether joint custody is in the best interests of child 3 is moreover a dispute between the parties. This interim proceedings does not lend itself to examining it , so that for this reason too, the requested facility is not eligible for allocation. The Court of Appeal will therefore also uphold the decision of the preliminary relief judge on this point.


3.9
This means that the father 's grievances fail.


3.10
In an occasional appeal, the mother lodged a complaint against the consideration of the preliminary relief judge that the father would have to travel to Arnhem once every six weeks for dealing with child 3. As follows from the foregoing, the Court of Appeal assumed that the father would have to travel to Arnhem (or Heerlen or Maastricht) once every twelve weeks. The complaint is successful, but cannot lead to the judgment being set aside.


3.11
With her second complaint, the mother challenges the decision of the preliminary relief judge not to order the father to pay the costs. The preliminary relief judge compensated for the costs in the first instance. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion, together with the preliminary relief judge, that there is no basis for an order for costs in first instance for the reasons as included in the judgment by the preliminary relief judge.

The grievances of the mother fail.


3.12
Nor does the court see any reason to order the mother to pay the costs of the proceedings at first instance, as the father has demanded, because the parties are former partners. This relationship also means that the claims back and forth to order the other to pay the costs of the proceedings will be rejected. The costs of the proceedings on appeal are compensated, so that each party bears its own costs.


3.13
The judgment whose appeal will be ratified.


4 Decision
The court,

in principal and incidental appeal:

ratifies the judgment appealed;

compensates the costs of the proceedings on appeal in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or else advanced.

This judgment was given by mrs. MC Schenkeveld, HA van den Berg and TAM Tijhuis and publicly pronounced by the role councilor on 19 February 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 665