Content indication
Request extension contact rejected after repeated (unsuccessful) attempt to call in assistance for contact recovery .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-01-08
Publication date
2019-01-21
Case number
200,145,447 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
Interim judgment: ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2015: 1907
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Verdict: 8 January 2019

Case number: 200.145.447 / 01

Case number first instance: C / 13/558302 / FA RK 14-561 (DvdB / AT)

Order of the multiple family room in the appeal case of:

the woman ,

living at home,

appellant,

lawyer: A. el Aqde in Amsterdam,

against

the man ,

living at home,

timed,

lawyer: JC Daniels in Amsterdam.


1 The further appeal proceedings

1.1
The parties are again referred to as the wife and the husband respectively.


1.2
The court refers to and adopts what is included in its order of May 19 2015. In that decision, the court, as far as relevant now, the council ordered an inquiry to be set at whether contact between the husband and the children is currently in the best interest of the children , and if so how this form and frequency of contact should be designed in the best interests of the children .


1.3
The Registry of this Court on August 3, 2015 the report of the Board received on July 30, 2015.

On October 4, 2016, a letter with attachment from the side of the man arrived and a letter with attachments from the woman.


1.4
The oral hearing of the case continued on 5 October 2016. An official report has been drawn up of this treatment, which is enclosed with the documents. In it, the court instructed parties to follow the 'Parenthood Remains' process at Altra as urgently as advised in the council report of 30 July 2015, whereby it is up to Altra to consider whether, and if so to what extent, further assistance for those involved is indicated. and to deploy that assistance . The court has requested the lawyers of the parties to submit Altra 's reports send it to the court and also inform the court about the course of the process, no later than March 2017. The case was handled pro forma until 2 April 2017, subject to the maintenance of any further decision.


1.5
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a journal report from the husband of January 27, 2017 with appendix, received at the court on January 30, 2017;

- a letter from the husband of 10 February 2017, received at the court on the same date;

- a letter from the husband of 29 May 2018 with an attachment, received at the court on the same date.


1.6
The minors child A and child B have separately expressed their opinion by letter. The contents of the letters were briefly and concisely stated at the hearing on 14 November 2018.


1.7
The oral hearing was continued on 14 November 2018. Appeared are:

- the woman, assisted by A. el Aqde and Mrs. A. Outaklla, Moroccan-Arabic interpreter;

- JC Daniels, on behalf of the man;

- on behalf of the council , Mrs. DM van Dijk.


1.8
The man, although properly summoned, did not appear in person in court.


2 The further assessment of the appeal

2.1
During the hearing on appeal, the woman's lawyer announced on November 14, 2018 that it - earlier in the same session - the request of the woman to the man's dealings with the children to refuse to be considered withdrawn. In view of this, this request no longer needs discussion.

At the discretion of the court, the care arrangement between the husband and the children is currently still underway . In accordance with the provisions of Article 1: 253a of the Dutch Civil Code, the Court of Appeal will take such a decision as it would appear to be desirable in the interests of the children .


2.2
The woman stated the following at the hearing on appeal on November 14, 2018. After the last session at the court, the woman again had contact with Altra . Altra was no longer able to get in touch with the man , so Altra was unable to guide parties further . The children are doing well at the moment . They are in the first class of high school and are busy. Since the summer vacation they no longer receive guidance . Child A has indicated that it included no need for more. The man does not inquire about the children. There is also no contact between the woman and the man. The contested decision, regard shall be destroyed on the circumstances and the request of the man to a care arrangement between him and the children to be determined, must be rejected, said the woman.


2.3
Mr. Daniels stated the following on behalf of the man at the appeal hearing on November 14, 2018. The contested decision must be upheld primarily. Alternatively, the council should investigate whether a child protection measure is necessary in the present case. The children do not want to have contact with the man at the moment . Trauma may be the cause of this. It is in the interest of the children to have some form of contact with the man, says Mr. Daniels.


2.4
The Council advised the Court of Appeal on appeal to annul the contested decision. The council report shows that dealing with the man is in the interest of the children , but that they withdraw. In addition, the problem is that the man does not cooperate. The council doubts whether it would work to use a child protection measure in those circumstances , since the problem lies with the man and not with the children . The present proceedings must be terminated; the hindrance of the children is currently too great. The parents must create a situation in which handlingbetween the man and the children . It is important that the children can form a picture of their father , but in this way there are no possibilities, according to the council .


2.5
The court considers as follows.

In the context of the present appeal procedure, as the Court of Appeal had already considered in its interim decision of 19 May 2015, one trial contact took place on 27 November 2014 between the man and the children . During this contact, the man spoke with the children for 20 minutes in the presence of the woman and an Altra employee . The situation then stagnated; the guidance of Altra has stopped and the mediation process the parties were started was stranded. The council report mentioned under 1.3 shows that the children have been seriously burdened with divorce issues since 2011from the parents . They have a negative image of the man and do not want to contact him. The council advised the parents in the council report to turn to Parenthood Remains of Altra in order to receive appropriate help for their problems. The great resistance of the children made contact with the man at that time impossible. The parents did not register with Altra at that time. From the official report of the oral treatment of 5 October 2016 referred to under 1.4, it appears that the woman reported to the GP as a result of the council report, but that it was not clear to her that she would subsequently refer her to the GP. had to report to Altra . At the hearing , the Court of Appeal instructed the parents to follow the Parental Stay with Altra program as a matter of urgency , as advised by the council in the council report. The messages mentioned under 1.5 show that the process remains with Parenthoodstarted in February 2017, but subsequently (again) stagnated. On November 14, 2018, it appeared at the hearing on appeal that Altra attempted to restart the process. Altra has been in contact with the woman in this context, but has been unable to contact the man.

It follows from the foregoing that since the one-off test contact in November 2014, there has been no contact between the man and the children . The children are now twelve years old. They have repeatedly and consistently informed for some time that they do not want contact with the man. In recent years, the parties have not been able to adhere to the agreements made and are committed to providing assistance . This way, Altra was no longer able to get in touch with the man to restart the Parenthood Continuation process. At the hearing it emerged that the woman still had some contact with Altra, although it has also proved difficult in recent years to motivate her for contact recovery between the man and the children . The court in this state of affairs, in which between the husband and the children no form since 2014, handling more occurred and where the children is no room for contact with the man, believes that established by the court care scheme , which amended the access arrangements laid down in the divorce decree of 26 July 2006 (of once every two weeks a few hours), too broad and therefore not in the interest of the childrenis. This judgment implies that the contested decision in so far submitted to the judgment of the court, will be destroyed and the preliminary request from the man to determine the further such requests care scheme will be rejected.


2.6
For the sake of completeness, the Court of Appeal considered that the information scheme as laid down in the contested decision is not currently available for review on appeal. The information scheme will therefore continue to apply. At the hearing on appeal, the woman stated that she would comply with this obligation. The court of appeal assumes that the woman will honor this commitment.


2.7
This leads to the following decision.


3 Decision
The court:

annul the decision of the court below, regarding the foreseen care arrangement between the husband and the children , and to that extent again hereby:

Rejects the man's preliminary request;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by MFGH Beckers, MC Schenkeveld, and M. Groenleer, in the presence of H. Sapir, as clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on 8 January 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 44