Content indication
Murder of Marianne Vaatstra. Publications on the internet in connection with the theory that someone other than the one convicted for it has committed the murder. The author's repeated approaches to Marianne 's mother . Use of excerpts from the mother's diary and statements not really made by her. Unlawful act. Hof judges the author's behavior 'offensive, harrowing, adding suffering and witnessing a shocking lack of respect'. Contact and publication ban. Art. 162 BW, art. 114 and 161 Rv.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-12
Publication date
2019-02-12
Case number
200.223.841 / 01
Procedure
Appeals for interim relief
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
PS-Updates.nl 2019-0175
NJF 2019/219
YES 2019/83
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
civil and tax law department, team I

Case number: 200.223.841 / 01

Court case number (Noord-Holland): C / 15/259998 / KG ZA 17-442

Judgment of the Multiple Civil Chamber of 12 February 2019

on

appellant,

living at residence 1, municipality municipality 1,

appellant,

lawyer: TJ Stapel in Haarlem, the Netherlands,

against

timed,

living at residence 2, municipality municipality 2,

timed,

lawyer: Y. Moszkowicz in Utrecht.


1 The appeal proceedings
Parties are hereinafter referred to as appellant and respondent.

Appellant appealed on 1 September 2017 against a judgment of the preliminary relief judge of the Noord-Holland District Court, seat Haarlem, hereinafter referred to as 'the preliminary relief judge', of 7 August 2017, insofar as the above-mentioned case number in summary proceedings was pronounced between him as defendant in the claim, also claimant in the counterclaim, and respondent as claimant in the claim, also the defendant in the counterclaim.

The parties then submitted the following documents:

- statement of grievances, with productions;

- statement of reply, with a production.

The parties had the case pleaded at the hearing on 11 April 2018, together and simultaneously with the appeals in the - to their sufficient knowledge - case with number 200.226.457 / 01, to which they are also parties.

On behalf of the appellant, the case was pleaded by himself in person and by his lawyer mentioned in the preamble of this judgment, the former using the speaking notes that were submitted. The respondent brought the case to the fore by her lawyer mentioned in the preamble to this judgment and by MJ Hoogendoorn, lawyer in Utrecht, who used a joint pleading note that was submitted. On the occasion of the pleas, further productions were brought into the proceedings on the part of the defendant.

The appellant has concluded, in short, that the Court of Appeal will set aside the contested judgment and will still reject the claims of the respondent - in the convention -, condemning the respondent in the costs of the proceedings at first instance and on appeal.

the respondent has concluded, in short and understands to the court, that the court will dismiss the appeal and ratify the contested judgment, ordering the appellant to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings.

Finally, judgment was requested.


2 Facts
In the contested judgment under 2, 2.1 to 2.26, the preliminary relief judge referred to the facts that he took as the starting point. The accuracy of those facts has not been challenged in the appeal, so that the Court of Appeal will also take this into account, on the understanding that it will also take into account a number of other, hereafter to be referred to, facts that are not in dispute between the parties.


3 Review

3.1.
The essence of the case is whether the appellant has legal obligations to (i) not contact the respondent, (ii) to refrain from certain statements that are perceived as undesirable by the respondent and (iii) to publish any of the publications listed below remove, maintain and rectify the website website maintained by him and on his Facebook page. The following facts are the reason for this question.


3.2.
the timed is the motherof Marianne Vaatstra, hereinafter 'Marianne', who was murdered on 1 May 1999. After more than 12 years and after a so-called DNA match was established between him and traces found on Marianne's body, X announced that he had committed that murder. He was sentenced to 18 years' imprisonment for the murder and rape of Marianne by irrevocable judgment of 19 April 2013. The appellant, as a private person, made an effort to contribute to solving the murder of Marianne. He holds a theory according to which in reality it was not X who committed it, but an asylum seeker who left the Netherlands after the murder with the help of third parties. The appellant persisted in that theory even after the former was sentenced. He carries this out, among other things,


3.3.
Prior to the arrest of X, the appellant and the defendant maintained contact with each other in connection with the murder of Marianne. From a friend of the respondent, Y, the appellant received a copy of the diary that the respondent kept between May 1999 and April 2013. The appellant's plan to publish this diary or parts thereof, as an original text or in a form edited by him as a chapter of another book, has led to various lawsuits between the parties in which he is forbidden on request of the respondent, on pain of forfeit of a penalty. Such a prohibition has been pronounced by judgment of 18 December 2013 of the interim injunction proceedings judge and by judgment of 24 August 2016 of the Noord-Holland court in a substantive procedure based on the copyrighted future copyright and the lack of permission from her for publication. . An appeal against both judgments has been lodged with this court. The Court of Appeal upheld the publication ban by judgments of 17 March 2015 and 5 June 2018 respectively.


3.4.
On May 7, 2017, June 28, 2017 and June 29, 2017, the appellant subsequently placed articles on its website website under the titles 'title 1', 'title 2' and 'title 3)'. These articles, written by himself, were cited in the contested judgment under 2.20, 2.21 and 2.22, to which reference is made here. The article 'title 1' contains, among other things, a text fragment from the diary of the respondent. The two articles 'title 2' also contain such fragments of text. The two articles 'title 2' are also published on the appellant's Facebook page and are written in the first person singular, as would be customary if they were written by the respondent. All articles largely relate to alleged facts concerning the murder of Marianne that fit the appellant's theory that the murder was committed by someone other than X and that the actual perpetrator left the Netherlands with the help of third parties. The two articles 'title 2' also make it appear as if the author thereof renders support for the appellant in this matter, abstains only under pressure from her family, and apologizes for having dropped her former 'combatant' appellant. The aforementioned articles were removed from the appellant's website on 6 July 2017. The two articles 'title 2' also make it appear as if the author thereof renders support for the appellant in this matter, abstains only under pressure from her family, and apologizes for having dropped her former 'combatant' appellant. The aforementioned articles were removed from the appellant's website on 6 July 2017. The two articles 'title 2' also make it appear as if the author thereof renders support for the appellant in this matter, abstains only under pressure from her family, and apologizes for having dropped her former 'combatant' appellant. The aforementioned articles were removed from the appellant's website on 6 July 2017.


3.5.
the appellant has repeatedly sent emails to the respondent in which he expresses himself about the murder of Marianne in accordance with his theory about this and in which he tries to win the respondent for that theory. By e-mails of 10 July 2015 and 8 November 2016 from her lawyer referred to in the preamble to this judgment, addressed to the appellant's lawyer, summoned appellant has summoned to stop contacting her or harassing her. With those e-mails there is also a legal claim to impose a contact banannounced if the appellant would not comply with it. With subsequent e-mails of 22 April 2017, 11 May 2017, 14 May 2017, 17 May 2017, 19 May 2017 and 22 May 2017 that, among others, have been sent to both her lawyer and the defendant herself, the appellant has confronted the defendant again with his aforementioned theory. The e-mails of 22 April 2017 and 11 May 2017, cited in the contested judgment under 2.16 and 2.17, referred to here, also contain accusations against her in case she does not want to support that theory.


3.6.
Against the background of the above, the respondent takes the view that the appellant is acting unlawfully vis-à-vis her by continuing to contact her, despite the aforementioned summons, by publishing on his website and Facebook page the articles 'title 1' , "Title 2" and "Title 3", containing excerpts from the journalist's diary, and by expressing himself on his website and his Facebook page in the sense described under 3.4. To terminate the alleged unlawful act, the respondent in the first instance - in the main action - has demanded provisional provisions aimed at imposing a contact banto the appellant, permanent removal of the aforementioned articles from his website and his Facebook page, placement of rectifications of the articles 'title 2' and 'title 3' on his website, a prohibition on the appellant from making statements that her family is intimidated blackmailed and an order to the appellant to use words that are not authentic from the intimidated or from Marianne in expressions on his part, to state that it concerns words of himself, all on pain of forfeiting a penalty .


3.7.
Pursuant to the judgment of 24 August 2016 of the Noord-Holland court referred to under 3.3, the defendant has ordered the appellant to enforce an attachment on a bank account belonging to him up to an amount of € 59,000 due to penalties forfeited by the appellant , as imposed by that judgment. In the first instance, the appellant - in the counterclaim proceedings - requested that the appellant be ordered to cancel the attachment imposed, in its entirety or to the extent that that attachment exceeds an amount of € 29,500.


3.8.
In the contested judgment, the provisions demanded under 3.6 have been granted by the respondent, as stipulated in the operative part of that judgment. The prohibitions and prohibitions imposed on the appellant for this purpose have been reinforced with a penaltyfrom € 20,000 per day for each violation thereof, to a maximum of € 500,000. The appellant's claim has been granted insofar as the attachment charged against him exceeds an amount of € 29,500. On appeal, the appellant challenged nine decisions against the decisions given in the contested judgment and the considerations on which they were based. It is apparent from the petition stated on the last page of the statement of objections that the appellant does not request on appeal that the above - counterclaimed - claim, as stated in the contested judgment, be granted any more far-reaching allocation, while neither does the statement in that statement It appears that he wants to achieve a more far-reaching allocation of his claim on appeal.


3.9.
On appeal too, the question is whether there is grounds for granting provisional measures , such as those claimed by the respondent. In assessing the complaints, the Court of Appeal must therefore focus on the likely outcome of a possible substantive proceedings on the issues that divide the parties, without leaving room for further investigation into the facts and circumstances of the parties in the current summary proceedings. have brought forward. This leads to the following assessment.


3.10.
With complaint 1the appellant complains about decisions of the preliminary relief judge with regard to the proceedings at first instance, in particular about the decisions not to postpone the hearing at which the summary proceedings at first instance were adjourned to a date later than the date determined for that purpose on which that hearing took place, namely July 24, 2017. To that end, he argues, summarized, that, having regard to the scope and content of the summons of the respondent, the time at which it was issued to him and the claims made thereby, little time has been allocated for proper preparation of the relevant session. the appellant first of all ignores the fact that the decisions under attack involve so-called role decisions, which were given in the context of the instruction of the case. Such decisions are not, in principle, open to appeal, not even as part of an appeal brought against a judgment given later in the same proceedings. The appellant furthermore ignores that the summons at first instance has been issued to him with due observance of the summons period of at least one week as defined in article 114 DCCP, which the interim relief judge has not shortened, as on the grounds of the second paragraph of article 254 member, RV had been possible. There were ten days between the date on which the summons was issued, namely 14 July 2017, and the date of the hearing at first instance. This time span was not only sufficient in view of the period specified in Article 114 DCCP, it was also sufficient if account was taken of the sufficient opportunity that the appellant was required to properly prepare the hearing and his defense in relation to compliance with the principle of the right to be heard, even if the size and content of the summons and the documents submitted with it. For all these reasons, the complaint fails.


3.11.
By grievances 2 to 7 and 9 , the appellant disputes the assignability of the provisions made in the contested judgment with regard to seeking contact with respondents by him, the permanent removal of the articles 'title 1', 'title 2' and 'title 3' of his website and his Facebook page, the placement of rectifications, the expressions of being intimidated by her family and the use of non-authentic words of intimidated or Marianne in expressions on his part. He also disputes the reinforcement of the provisions made with a penaltyup to an amount of € 20,000 per day for each violation, up to a maximum of € 500,000, as determined in the operative part of the contested judgment. The grievances are suitable for a joint discussion.


3.12.
For the allocation of the provisions referred to above, it is necessary, but also sufficient, that the appellant has legal obligations as described under 3.1 and that he is likely to have violated these. In that case, it must be assumed that he acted unlawfully in relation to the defendant, in breach of those legal obligations, as stated by her. In view of the right to freedom of expression, enshrined in constitutional and treaty law, the appellant is, in principle, free to cherish and propagate his theory of murder of Marianne mentioned under 3.2. However, that freedom is not unlimited. It is limited, inter alia, by the timed future rights to respect for its privacy and to protectionof her honor and good name. The freedom of the appellant is further limited by the copyright of the respondent on her diary mentioned under 3.3, which copyright the Noord-Holland District Court has by judgment of 24 August 2016 in a substantive procedure - as well as the court by judgment of 5 June 2018 on appeal has ruled and from which it follows that the appellant is not free to draw from it at his own discretion in his speech. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 6: 162 of the Dutch Civil Code, the appellant is obliged to refrain from statements and other acts that infringe upon the aforementioned rights of the defendant. Based on this, the court of appeal rules as follows.


3.13.
By sending two e-mails of 10 July 2015 and 8 November 2016 from her lawyer, addressed to the appellant's lawyer, the appellant summoned to stop contacting her or harassing her. This has made it clear to the appellant that she no longer wishes to be confronted with him and his aforementioned theory. In this summary proceedings it has in no way become plausible that the respondent in fact wanted something else, so that the appellant had to assume that the respondent wished to remain exempt from further contact with him. The appellant has nevertheless approached her again in his e-mails referred to under 3.5 of 22 April 2017, 11 May 2017, 14 May 2017, 17 May 2017, 19 May 2017 and 22 May 2017.


3.14.
In addition, the appellant has included text fragments from the diary of the respondent in his articles mentioned under 3.4, in respect of which she has copyright. By the above-mentioned judgment on 24 August 2016, the Noord-Holland court ruled that the appellant had not given permission for the use of parts of her diary and for their publication. The fact - established between the parties - also points to the fact that the respondent at some point said to the appellant: "Please do not do anything with my diary because that would be my death."In these summary proceedings it has not become plausible that she did give permission for the use of the text fragments in the articles mentioned under 3.4, while in the aforementioned judgment it was also ruled that the appellant was not entitled to quote from the journal of the respondent. The appellant was therefore not free to include text fragments from that diary in his own articles. By doing so, he has infringed copyrighted copyright.


3.15.
By pretending to be intimidated in the articles 'title 2' and 'title 3' and putting her non-authentic statements in it, in line with his theory of the murder of Marianne, which are incompatible with confession and conviction of X in this regard and which are not supported by facts, the appellant has also infringed the right of the defendant to protect her honor and reputation. He also infringed that right by making it appear as if the defendant distanced himself from him and his theory only under pressure from her family.


3.16.
It follows from the above that the appellant has violated legal obligations by continuing to contact the defendant in his e-mails mentioned under 3.5, publishing the articles mentioned under 3.4 on his website and Facebook page and by making the statements described above. As a result, he acted unlawfully against the defendant. The unlawfulness of the acts of which the appellant is accused is all the more present when the assessment of that acts, in addition to the respondent's rights mentioned under 3.12, is taken into account, which befits the appellant according to unwritten law in society. Taking into account the suffering suffered by the defendant as a result of the murder of Marianne, her daughter, and the uncertainty about the perpetrator thereof, in which uncertainty she has been in for more than 12 years,hurtful , distressing, adding suffering and bearing witness to a shocking lack of respect on the part of the appellant for the person and the feelings of the respondent. This, in addition to the circumstance that the judgment of 19 April 2013 referred to in 3.2, whereby it has been proven that X committed the murder of Marianne, is subject to mandatory proof of that fact under Article 161 DCCP, while the appellant's opposite theory in this case litigation has not become plausible or has been adequately supported by facts, makes the conduct of the appellant vis-à-vis the defendant to a great extent unseemly and therefore unlawful.


3.17.
The provisions given in the contested judgment, also with regard to the rectifications offered and the reinforcement of the provisions with a penalty to the amounts determined by the preliminary relief judge, about which the appellant complains, are both expedient and proportional in view of the appellant's unlawful act and the right and interest of the respondent to have this terminated. The foregoing implies that all the complaints mentioned under 3.11 fail.


3.18.
The conclusion from the above is that none of the grievances succeed. This also applies to the complaint 8 , which has not been mentioned before , which complains about a consideration by the judge in preliminary relief proceedings regarding the - counterclaimed - claim of the appellant himself and which, in the absence of interest, does not require discussion, since the appeal is not aimed at a more far-reaching appeal. allocation of that claim than determined at first instance. The appeal was therefore unsuccessful, so that the contested judgment will be ratified to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court. As the unsuccessful party, the appellant will be ordered to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings.


4 Decision
The court:

ratifies the judgment, the appeal of which is subject to the judgment of the court of appeal;

orders the appellant to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings, to date on the part of the respondent budgeted at € 313 in disbursements and € 3,222 in lawyer's salary ;

declares this cost order enforceable in stock.

This judgment was given by mrs. WHFM Cortenraad, AS Arnold and FJ Verbeek and pronounced in public by the role councilor on 12 February 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 349