Content indication
Parental arrangement on a 50/50 basis is not in the best interests of the child in this case because the husband persists in his mistrust of the wife. The main residence is in the best interests of the child to remain with the same (main) educator.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-07-30
Publication date
2019-08-13
Case number
200.249.522 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.249.522 / 01

Case number court: C / 15/266256 / FA RK 17-6500

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 30 July 2019 on

the man ,

residing at domicile, municipality Z,

applicant in principal appeal,

defendant in an incidental appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: CPM Engels in Heerhugowaard,

and

the woman ,

living at home,

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in an incidental appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: YAR Seen in Noord-Scharwoude.

The following is also considered as an interested party:

- the minor son (hereinafter referred to as: the minor );

- the certified institution Stichting de Jeugd- & Gezinbeschermers (hereinafter referred to as: the GI)

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of Noord-Holland, location Alkmaar (hereinafter: the court) of 25 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The man lodged an appeal on 24 October 2018 against the above decision.


2.2
On January 30, 2019, the woman filed a statement of defense including an incidental appeal.


2.3
On March 13, 2019, the man filed a defense to the incidental appeal.


2.4
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a letter from the Council of 23 November 2018, received on the same date;

- a journal report from the man of 18 January 2019 with appendices, received on 21 January 2019;

- a letter from the Council of 7 March 2019, received on 8 March 2019;

- a journal report from the man of 30 April 2019 with appendices, received on the same date;

- a letter from the woman of 30 April 2019 with appendices, received on 1 May 2019;

- a fax message from the husband of 1 May 2019 with attachments;

- a journal report from the husband of 2 May 2019 with appendices, received on 3 May 2019;

- a fax message from the husband of 5 May 2019 with an attachment;

- a letter from the woman of 6 May 2019 with appendices, received on 8 May 2019;

- a journal message from the man of 7 May 2019 with an attachment, received by fax on the same date;

- a journal message from the woman of 8 May 2019 with an attachment, received by fax on the same date.


2.5
The oral hearing took place on 15 May 2019. Appeared are:

- the man, assisted by his lawyer;

- the woman assisted by her lawyer;

- the GI, represented by the family manager and her supervisor;

- the council , represented by Mrs. DM van Dijk.

Both lawyers submitted pleading notes at the hearing on appeal.


2.6
The dispute between the man and the woman (the parties) in respect of the principal residence of the minor and the distribution of care and upbringing between the parents is hearing very extensively discussed. With regard to child support and partner maintenance , the parties were given the opportunity - as agreed at the hearing - to explain their views simultaneously in writing after the oral hearing and to respond once more to each other's documents. Before closing the session, the parties informed the court regarding the care arrangement and main residencewill rule today. On 1 October 2019, the Court of Appeal will rule (in a separate decision) with regard to the requests with regard to child support and partner maintenance , which will also include this further change of documents.


3 The facts

3.1
By registering on 12 November 2018 in the registers of civil status of the - as far as not disputed - divorce decision of 25 July 2018, the marriage of parties closed in 2013 in Koggenland has been dissolved . That marriage is a minor born in 2014. The parties jointly exercise authority over the minor .


3.2
In addition to the minor , the wife has three other children from previous marriages . To know;

- child A, born in 2001 (hereafter: child A);

- child B, born in 2003 (hereafter: child B);

- child C, born in 2009 (hereafter: child C).

child B and child C stay with the woman. child A has his main residence with his father and stays with the wife on weekends and holidays. child B has no dealings with her father . child C interacts with her father during a weekend every fourteen days .


3.3
the minor suffers from tuberous sclerosis (TSC2) and polycystic kidney disease (PKD1). This is a rare combination of two genetic diseases. PKD1 leads to many kidney tumors and ultimately to renal failure. TSC2 leads to tumor growth in the brain, heart, kidneys, lungs, skin and bones. In addition, the minor has hydrocephalus (a water head). Recently the minor can talk, previously he only communicated through sign language. the minor functions cognitively at the level of a three-year-old.


3.4
On 27 September 2017, an incident took place as a result of which a ten-day restraining order was imposed on the man. The wife left the marital home on December 7, 2017.


3.5
By order of 1 November 2017, the court provisionally placed the minor under official supervision of the GI until 1 February 2018.


3.6
By order of the court of 16 November 2017, it was determined by way of a provisional provision - in summary - that:

- the woman is exclusively entitled to use the marital home ;

- the minor is entrusted to the woman;

- a care arrangement applies the minor every two weeks stay for a weekend at the man Saturday 09:00 to Sunday 18:00;

- the husband must pay a contribution to the wife for the costs of care and upbringing of the minor (hereafter also: child support ) of € 599 per month.


3.7
By order of the Court of December 13, 2017 is the board requested research to do and advice Move out to the main residence of the minor and the care arrangement is in his interest, all this in addition to the already by order of November 1, 2017 mandate given to the council to investigate the need for the minor to be placed under supervision .


3.8
On January 15, 2018, the man 's father tried to rob the woman of life. The woman was admitted to the hospital as a result of this. The father of the man on August 2, 2018 for attempted murder sentenced to imprisonment for a term of seven years.


3.9
By order of the court of January 16, 2018, an authorization to place the minor out of home with his father was granted with effect from January 16, 2018.


3.10
On January 22, 2018, the minor was placed back with the woman after her discharge from the hospital.


3.11
By order of the court of 19 January 2018, following a request and report from the council , the minor was placed under the supervision of the GI until 19 January 2019.


3.12
By order of the court of March 1, 2018, with modification of the order provisional provisions of November 16, 2017 - summarized -:

- determined that the minor would stay with the husband once every two weeks for a Friday from Heliomare (12.00), or from 1 March 2018 from the Mytylschool, until Monday morning to Heliomare (09.00), or the Mytylschool;

- a summer holiday and public holiday arrangement has been established;

- stipulates that the woman informs the man within two hours in cases of acute medical peculiarity of the minor ;

- stipulates that the man must pay the woman, in addition to the child support for the minor of € 608 per month indexed, a partner contribution (hereafter also: partner maintenance ) of € 52 gross per month.


3.13
The council issued a report on March 28, 2018, in which the council advises the court to the main residence of the minor to determine the woman and make arrangements to ascertain the minor fortnightly stay for a weekend at the man.


3.14
By judgment in summary proceedings of 7 June 2018, the judge in interlocutory proceedings has:

- stipulates that within one week after receipt thereof, the woman provides the man with relevant medical information about the minor and relevant information from school, which the man does not obtain or cannot obtain directly from the doctors or school, by email;

- stipulates that the woman, in consultation with the man, must make appointments with and visits to treating doctors of the minor and that she must allow the man to be present at such agreements, and furthermore that she may not unilaterally cancel scheduled appointments once ;

- stipulates that the woman must cooperate in the application for a disability pass for the minor and, in the event that the woman fails to do so, - subject to conditions - substitute permission granted to the man to apply for such a pass;

- stipulates that the disabled pass must be kept in the minor 's medicine bag ;

- on pain of a penalty payment, the man is forbidden to visit the minor 's father with the minor in a penitentiary institution .


3.15
By judgment of the court of 31 July 2018, a penalty was imposed on the aforementioned obligations of the woman .


3.16
The supervision of the minor was last extended by order of the court of 17 January 2019 to 19 July 2019.


3.17
In (to the extent not contested) decision, which appeal to the court , the council sought against the authority in addition to the report of March 28, 2018, research to do to answer the question of which authority provision in the interests of the minor is, and to advise the court in this regard.


3.18
By letter to the court of 10 April 2019, the council returned the request for investigation to the court . To date, the court has upheld the decision on custody of the minor pro forma.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, as far as currently relevant, at the request of the woman:

1. determine the minor 's principal place of residence with the woman,

2. the division of care and upbringing duties determined as follows:

· Regarding the regular care scheme:

- the minor stays with the man in the odd weeks once every two weeks for a weekend from Friday afternoon after school to Monday morning to school;

- if the minor has no school on Friday, the transfer will take place at noon by an independent third party in a neutral place;

- if the minor has no school on Monday, the transfer will take place at noon by an independent third party in a neutral place;

· Regarding the holidays and public holidays:

Summer vacation 2018:

- the minor stays from school from Friday 20 July 2018 at school until Monday 23 July 2018 at noon;

- the minor will be staying with the woman from Monday 23 July 2018 at noon to Monday 13 August 2018 at noon;

- the minor will be staying at school with the male on Monday 13 August 2018 at noon until Monday 3 September 2018;

- the transfer will take place on Monday 23 July 2018 and on 13 August 2018 by an independent third party in a neutral location;

Summer vacation from 2019:

- the minor stays with the woman during the first three weeks of the summer vacation. If the last day of school before summer vacation is in an odd week and therefore the care of the weekend man prevail regular care arrangements and finds the change place as described above under 'summer 2018' stated;

- the transfer, if not done at school, takes place by an independent third party in a neutral place;

Holidays of one week:

- Holidays of one week are shared in half. The holiday starts on the last school day for this holiday from school and ends on the first school day to school. If the last school day falls into an odd week, the minor will stay with the man from the last school day out of school until the following Wednesday. From Wednesday 12 noon to Monday, the minor stays with the woman. If the last school day falls in an even week, the minor will stay with the woman from the last school day from school until the following Wednesday and the minor will be staying with the man from Wednesday noon to Monday;

- the transfer, if not done at school, takes place by an independent third party in a neutral place;

Holidays of two weeks:

- Holidays of two weeks are divided by half. The holiday starts on the last school day for this holiday from school and ends on the first school day to school. If the last school day falls into an odd week, the minor will stay with the man from the last school day out of school until the second Saturday in that vacation. From that Saturday at noon to Monday, the minor stays with the woman. If the last school day falls into an even week, the minor will stay with the woman from the last school day out of school until the second Saturday in that vacation and the minor will stay with the man from that Saturday noon to Monday;

- the transfer, if not done at school, takes place by an independent third party in a neutral place;

Holidays:

- the minor stays Christmas Day with the woman, Boxing Day with the man; the preceding holiday distribution applies before and afterwards; switch at a neutral place by an independent third party;

- the minor stays on New Year's Day and New Year's Day even years (starting from New Year's Day) with the man, odd years (starting from New Year's Day) with the woman, changes in a neutral place by an independent third party;

- the minor stays on Easter Day with the woman, Easter Monday with the man with a bill in a neutral place by an independent third party;

- the minor resides Pentecost at the age where he conforms to the standard care regime at that time, Whit Monday with the other parent with a substitution at a neutral site by an independent third party;

- A public holiday is from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.

Other days:

- the minor stays on his birthday where he is according to the usual rules. Parties each celebrate the birthday in their own circle and time;

- The birthday of family members of the minor does not change the regular care scheme . Parties celebrate the birthdays in their own time;

- Free (school) days (study days) do not change the regular care scheme . If the free school / study day concerns a changeover day, the change will take place at 9 a.m.


4.2
In principal, the man requests an appeal, after supplementing by taking note of his original request in his appeal, with the annulment of the contested decision insofar as it is currently relevant:

I. establish that the minor will have his habitual residence with the husband;

II. a care arrangements to be determined between the parties and the minor with

Primary: the minor every Monday from parent changes, so he equally to each of the parents will

stay. However, if this is not a school day, the minor will stay with the parent where he is

stayed on Sunday, until the next school day;

alternatively: establish that the minor will be staying with the parent with whom he is not his normal

has residence (the court understands: the woman), for one weekend every two weeks, from Friday from school to Monday to school, and every Tuesday from school to Thursday to school;

the alternative: a care scheme to be determined according to the schedule of clinical

psychologist, namely:

week 1	parent 1 Mon / Tue / Wed	Parent 2 Thu / Fri / Sat.

week 2	parent 1 sun / Mon / Tue / Wed	parent 2 Thu / Fri / Sat / Sun.

week 3	parent 1 Mon / Tue / Wed	Parent 2 Thu / Fri / Sat.

week 4	parent 1 sun / Mon / Tue / Wed	parent 2 Thu / Fri / Sat / Sun.

at least to make arrangements in good establish justice which does justice to the opinion of the court in the interest of the minor and equal parenting of the man and the woman.

III. determine the following holiday distribution (whereby the minor stays with the parent mentioned in the schedule until the next school day):

MAN WOMAN:

Summer vacation	Odd years first three weeks,	Even years first three weeks,
taking into account	taking into account
held that the minor is no longer	held that the minor is no longer
than 3 weeks are other parents	than 3 weeks are other parents
don't see. In that case, the	don't see. In that case, the
vacation to be started with	vacation to be started with
a visit to mother's weekend . (2021)	a weekend visit to father . (2022)
Autumn break	Odd years with the man	For years with the woman
Christmas break	First week in odd years	First week in even years
Spring break	For years with the man	Odd years with the woman
May vacation	A few years first week with the man	Odd years first week with the woman
Days off school	Where the minor is currently staying	Where the minor is currently staying
IV. determine the following distribution of public holidays and special days:

Public holiday;	2019	2020	2021	2022
Birthday the minor	woman	man	woman	man
Good Friday	woman	man	man	man
Easter day	woman	man	woman	man
2nd day of Easter	woman	man	woman	man
Royal day	man	woman	woman	woman
Liberation Day	woman	woman	man	man
mothers Day	woman	woman	man	man
Ascension Day	woman	man	woman	woman
1st day of Pentecost	man	woman	man	woman
2nd day of Pentecost	man	woman	man	woman
Father's day	man	man	woman	woman
St Martin	woman	man	woman	woman
Sinterklaas entry (national)	man	woman	man	woman
Sinterklaas-eve	man	woman	woman	woman
Christmas	man	woman	man	woman
Old and new	woman	man	woman	man
and to this end the decision of the court of Noord-Holland, location Alkmaar of 25 July 2018 to change accordingly.

V. to order the council to carry out the investigation again, or at least to declare the council report of 28 March 2018 to be canceled, or at least to disregard it,

VI. reject the woman's requests or declare the woman's requests inadmissible.


4.3
The woman requests - in so far as it is relevant here - in principal appeal to declare the husband inadmissible, at least to dismiss his appeal and to ratify the contested decision, or at least to take such a decision as the court considers appropriate.


4.4
In an incidental appeal, the woman made a request with regard to child support . The man put up a defense against this. As previously considered, the decision will then be taken by separate decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
At the discretion of the court are now the requests of the man the main residence of the minor to determine him and make arrangements to capture as described above and request the Board to recommend the study re-run at least the Council report of 28 March 2018 to be canceled or at least ignored.

Council investigation


5.2
Unlike the man, the court sees no reason to order an additional investigation by the council . In this connection, the man states that the council investigation, which led to the report of 28 March 2018, only covers a very short period of time, the observations and discussions took a very short time, and the report was completed very quickly. In the opinion of the court, these are circumstances that in themselves say nothing about the validity of the investigation. It was up to the man to establish specific - substantiated - facts or circumstances, on the basis of which it can be assessed whether the council investigation or the report had defects, which he failed to do. The reference to a counter-expertise with regard to the council report obtained by the husband of a "registered psychologist, also child and adolescent psychologist and remedial educationalist" is insufficient. The Court of Appeal cannot attach to this opinion the conclusions that the man wishes to attach to it, if only for the fact that its author wishes to remain anonymous and therefore the Court cannot estimate the reliability and authenticity of this counter-expertise. . The other complaints made by the man regarding the report relate in particular to the conclusions reached by the Councilhas come. However, the mere fact that the man does not agree with these conclusions does not mean that those conclusions are based on inadequate investigation thereof. In addition, the man himself has made it impossible for the council to conduct a supplementary investigation because he only wanted to cooperate in that investigation under certain conditions ; this while the man was obliged under Article 198 paragraph 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure to cooperate (without conditions in advance) . The council has the court's request for further investigationto do so for that reason, according to the letter from the council of 10 April 2019 to the court. In the opinion of the court of appeal, the council conducted a thorough and careful investigation and the council involved all stakeholders in the investigation and gathered information from various informants and incorporated it into the report. The Court of Appeal will therefore reject the man's requests regarding the council investigation and will include the report of 28 March 2018 (as well as the council report of 18 December 2017) in the further assessment of the case. In addition, the Court of Appeal considered that the man's request for the "report to be declared void" was not supported by law.

Care scheme


5.3
Parties have joint authority . Pursuant to Article 1: 253a (2) of the Civil Code (BW), the court may, at the request of the parents or one of them, establish a regulation concerning the exercise of parental authority . These regulations may include: a. An allocation to each of the parents of the care and upbringing duties, as well as with a corresponding application of Article 377a, third paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code, a temporary prohibition on a parent to have contact with the child ;

b. the decision with which parent the child has his or her main residence ;

c. the way in which information about important matters with regard to the person and the property of the child is provided to the parent with whom the child does not have his principal place of residence or the way in which this parent is consulted;

d. the manner in which information is provided by third parties in accordance with Article 377c, first and second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code.


5.4
According to the man, the court wrongly care legislation lays down does not meet his request at first instance, and the main residence of the minor given wrongly in women. The man takes the position that the minor 's principal place of residence must be determined with him. In the last two years of the marriage (since 2016), the husband has taken on most of the minor 's concern . Both at home and during hospital visits, the husband was there for the minor , while the wife took care of her other three children. Moreover, the man has been allocated the marital home , so that the minor can stay with the man in his familiar environment . Furthermore, the man does not care about other children and can do his work from home when the minor does not need his care. For the man it is therefore much quieter for the minor , who needs that rest due to his illnesses. The minor has a swollen belly due to the cysts in his belly. Arteries run through the cysts. If these break, internal bleeding may occur. Due to the pressure that the cysts exert on certain organs, theminor epileptic seizures. The epilepsy must be carefully prevented and suppressed, the minor 's abdomen must always be protected and the minor is more susceptible to bacteria, the man emphasizes. In addition, despite the information obligation of the woman, the man does not receive a copy of the mail regarding the minor . For that reason too, the man requests that the minor be registered at his address, so that the man receives the mail about the minor .

In addition, the man requests a division by half of the care duties into parallel parenting , since this is in the best interests of the minor , now that this is more in line with the former role of the man in the minor 's life . The minor now only sees the man once every two weeks. the minor functions at the level of a three-year-old, which means that this frequency is not sufficient for him. the minor shows in his behavior that he needs more contact with the man. This parental arrangement also meets the needs of the parties and theminor to see each other a lot now that the minor will not grow old. Moreover, scientific research shows that for children in a divorce situation it is important for their cognitive development that they see both parents equally. The provision of information about the minor will be steered through a communication plan .

The man can not agree with the division of the holidays in the contested decision because, according to the care arrangement only last from 09:00 to 18:00. This results in an unnecessary extra changeover moment, while the changes are very stressful for parties and the minor . In addition, the man would like to have more time with the minor on the holidays .

Also, the transfer moments by an independent third party in a neutral place, at the hands of the woman, do not go well. They are more than once acquaintances of the woman and third parties, whether or not independent, have threatened and attacked the man several times in the presence of the minor . In the meantime, the transfer moments are therefore only at the school, according to the man.


5.5
The woman defends as follows. the minor has two diseases, but can live well with them. It is incorrect that the man would have taken on all the care tasks for the minor during the marriage . It was she, in particular, who looked after the minor , since the man worked full-time. Even when the man worked from home, the woman took care of the minor . Nor is it correct that the other children of the woman would cause too much pressure. The minor also comes into contact with other children at school and that is no problem for the minor . In addition, the other children of the woman grew up with the minor and they learned from the woman how to deal with him. The woman also disputes that the man would be better able to guarantee the medical safety of the minor . The woman was always the caregiver of the minor , as a result of which among other things the PGB was in her name. The submitted reports also show that the man was only in the hospital during the weekends and evenings with the minor .

With regard to the decision on the principal place of residence, the woman believes that as long as the court has not made a decision regarding the authority , the court cannot make a decision about the minor 's main place of residence . Nevertheless, even if the joint authority is maintained, the minor 's main residence must remain with the woman. The woman disputes that she would not comply with the information obligation. Parties disagree about the content of the information obligation. The GI has confirmed the authority of the man does not mean that he is entitled to very detailed information about everyday things.

Furthermore, co-parenting is not in the best interests of the minor , because too many changes will cause unrest for the minor . The woman has always taken the greatest care of the minor and even now she still has more time for him. The current care arrangement is therefore the best interests of the minor . the minor is used to being with his brother and sisters. Moreover, for a co-parental arrangement good communication between the parents is necessary; the parties are currently unable to do this.

According to the woman, the division of the holidays is more clearly divided in the contested decision than in the man's proposal, which gives peace of mind, so that this arrangement must also be maintained.


5.6
The GI stated at the hearing on appeal that it saw no reason to change the current situation. Although the man is able to provide adequate care to the minor , he disqualifies the woman in her mother's role in such a way that the minor's long stay with the man will be harmful to the minor . On the one hand, the minor functions at the level of a three-year-old, so that short, frequent contacts could be to his advantage. On the other hand, the minor needsto structure. He is accustomed to the woman and his brother and sisters, so that it is currently the most important are the current care arrangement to continue. Moreover, the man 's allegations against the woman, after inquiring at the school and the doctor, appear to be false, according to the GI.


5.7
The board hearing on appeal stated that he was in his studies by the ongoing discussions with the man about how the investigation should take place could not form a clear picture of the personality of the man and the educational possibilities of the parties. To make an educated decision about the main residence and other care arrangements to take, advises the council to order an investigation NIFP.

Nevertheless, the council persists in the advice from its report that the center of gravity of care for the minor should lie with the woman. The parties differ as to what the minor needs. The man's concerns about the minor were not confirmed in the council investigation. Frequent contact with the man is in itself in the interest of the minor , but this is hampered by the disturbed understanding between parties. In addition, the current weekend arrangement meets the minor's interest in continuity and seeing his brother and sisters. Well the GIfrequent care arrangements may in future studies , according to the council .


5.8
The court considers as follows.

The court of appeal currently sees no reason to order an investigation by the NIFP. The court considers that it is now based on the documents in the file, including two council reports, sufficient information to the care arrangements and the main residence to decide. In addition, the Court of Appeal considers it important for both the parties and the minor that clarity is soon established. In addition, the Court of Appeal doubts whether such an investigation, which is valuable to the parties, would actually lead to more mutual understanding and an improvement in the understanding between the parties. Whatever that is, such an investigation is necessary for the decision of the courtnot necessary. The court will therefore the opinion of the board does not follow and now decide regarding the care arrangement and the main residence .


5.9
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that a parenting regulation on a 50/50 basis, as requested by the husband, is currently not in the best interests of the minor . The Court of Appeal considers this as follows.

The man rightly points out that the law is based on the principle that, even after a divorce , both parents should retain an equal role as educators as much as possible. However, according to established case law, this principle does not mean that a parental arrangement on a 50/50 basis is the principle. When establishing a care arrangement after all serves the interests of the child a first recital. What that interest requires differs from case to case.

The man continues to be suspicious of the woman, which makes the parental arrangement that the man is requesting impossible. Co-parenting requires proper communication between parties based on basic mutual trust. The court does not follow the man's argument that this can be overcome through solo parallel parenting and a communication plan . Want solo parallel parenting can succeed, then serve parents at least, with all the differences of opinion which exist between them on ex-partner level, to recognize each other in their role as parentof the child . Since their breakup on 28 September 2017, the parties disagree as to who was or were the primary caregiver of the minor during their gathering and how to deal with the minor and his illness. Regardless of the man's propositions about this, it is certain that at least since the order of the court of 16 November 2017, the woman has been primarily responsible for the minor and that the husband has since seen the minor every other weekend. Moreover, the hospital report submitted by the woman at first instance and 16 production, the wife during the marriage was indeed present at theminor in the hospital. The argument of the man that scientifically established that every divorce situation joint custody is necessary in the interests of the cognitive development of the child , the court does not endorse already now lacking substantiation statement.

The court also does not follow the man in his statement that the woman would not take good care of the minor . The documents include an email from 30 April 2018 from the former family manager, showing that Dr. Jansen and Dr. Buter disagree with announcements from the man that the minor , when the other children of the woman have flu, man must stay, as well as the inoculations of the minor must always take place in a hospital. It has turned out that things are going well for the minor at the moment . From the council reports of December 18, 2017 and March 28, 2018, it appears that the then school of theminor , Heliomare, has seen no change in the behavior of the minor as a result of the divorce situation . She even saw that the minor has experienced a growth in his development . In addition, she notes that the minor benefits greatly from a clear structure. Furthermore, at the hearing on appeal, the woman stated, without being challenged, that the kidney function of the minor has recently improved. The GI statements at the hearing on appeal also showed that the minor it does well with the woman in the current situation and is used to the presence of his brother and sisters. The court understands that the minor thrives at home with the wife and the current care arrangement . And although it has been established that the transfer moments did not go well, the Court of Appeal did not find that this was caused (in particular) by the woman.

The GI and the school see that the minor is happy when he sees the man. However, this does not mean, apart from the above, that a 50/50 parental arrangement is now in the best interests of the minor . At the hearing on appeal it became apparent that the woman, unlike the man, is capable of filling in a neutral parenting . Despite the distrustfrom the past, the woman has changed her image of the man. The man has not (yet) been able to do this. An example of this is the announcement by doctor Jansen of the UMC, as included in the council report of December 18, 2017, that the man would like doctor Jansen to make a statement regarding the irritability of the minor , but that she cannot because she has no certainty about that.

Neither does the court follow the man in his statement that the woman would not adequately inform him. For example, Dr. Buter says in the council report of March 28, 2018 that the man was indeed informed in time about the minor 's epileptic attack on January 30, 2018. In addition, the woman was ordered by the judge in summary proceedings of June 7, 2018 so that the court assumes that the woman will comply with this.

The fact that the man has been allocated the former marital home also does not place much weight on the scale. For a child and the minor , who functions at the level of a three-year-old, the familiar environment is mainly determined by his or her parenting environment. This means that the minor does not have an interest in continuing to live in the same house, but rather with the same educator.

The Court of Appeal concludes that in a situation such as the present one, a 50/50 parental arrangement , even if that is implemented through parallel parenting, is not in the best interests of the minor . The court of appeal will therefore reject the man's request to establish a co-parental arrangement .


5.10
It appears from the documents and the proceedings at the hearing that the council , the GI and the school see no contraindications with regard to the man's upbringing skills. They all see that the minor is having a good time when he is with the man. For these reasons, the court sees reason to now extend the care scheme in such a way that the minor stays with the man every other week from Thursday after school until Monday to school. Through this arrangement, the man came to meet some extent in his desire to expand the care arrangements should be more together without the parties communicate than under the currentcare scheme has been required and no additional (incriminating) changes are needed.


5.11
The Court of Appeal sees no reason to divide the holiday and holiday arrangement in the manner requested by the man, now that he has not made it plausible that the arrangement he proposes is more in the interests of the minor than the current one. The Court of Appeal will therefore ratify the holiday and public holiday regulation laid down by the Court in the contested decision, now that in the opinion of the Court it is sufficiently clear and creates structure.

Main residence


5.12
Contrary to what the wife claims, the court may, as long as the parties have joint authority , decide on the request of the man to determine the minor 's principal place of residence with him. Considering the observations regarding the care arrangement is contemplated, the request of the man will be the principal residence of the minor to be determined by him, be rejected. This does not affect the fact that the court will still make a decision about the authority over the minor .


5.13
All this leads to the following decision.


6 Decision
The court:

In principal appeal (with regard to the regulation on the exercise of parental authority ):

The decision, which destroys appeal insofar as the (regular) health care scheme concerned; and in so far as again doing justice:

establishes the division of care and upbringing duties with respect to the minor so that the minor stays with the man in the odd weeks, so once every two weeks, from Thursday afternoon after school to Monday morning to school. If the minor has no school on Thursday, the transfer takes place on Thursday at 2.30 pm by an independent third party in a neutral place;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

ratifies the holiday and public holiday regulation as laid down in the decision whose appeal is made;

rejects the requests made more or differently for the exercise of joint parental authority ;

In principal and incidental appeal:

keeps the decision regarding child and partner alimony until October 1, 2019.

This decision was made by AVT de Bie, AR Sturhoofd, and ME Burger, in the presence of WJ Boon, as clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on 30 July 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 2860