Content indication
Validation under supervision . There is still a situation where the children experience problems with the struggle and tensions between the parents , so that there are still serious concerns about the development of the children . Assistance in an urgent environment is insufficient to be able to offer the parents sufficient guidance.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-06-25
Publication date
2019-07-08
Case number
200.257.027 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.257.027 / 01

Court case number: C / 15/273681 / JU RK 18-837

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 2 July 2019 concerning

the mother ,

residing at place of residence, municipality,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. JJC Engels in Heerhugowaard,

and

the certified institution Youth Protection Region Amsterdam,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following are also considered as stakeholders:

- the father (hereinafter referred to as: the father );

- the minor A (hereafter referred to as: child A);

- the minor B (hereafter referred to as: child B);

- the minor C (hereafter referred to as: child C).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location: Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Noord-Holland court (location Haarlem) of 27 December 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 27 March 2019 against the aforementioned decision of 27 December 2018.


2.2
The GI submitted a statement of defense on 2 May 2019.


2.3
Furthermore, a journal report from the mother of 24 May 2019 with appendices was received at the court on 27 May 2019 .


2.4
The Court of Appeal gave the minor child A the opportunity to express its opinion. It has indicated that it does not want to use it.


2.5
The oral hearing took place on 29 May 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the GI, represented by the family manager and an employee;

- the board , represented by Mr. R. Koops;

- the father .


3 The facts

3.1
From the now broken relationship of the mother and the father - where relevant here - are born:

- child B at birth place in 2010;

- child C at birth place in 2010;

- child A in 2005 in the municipality (hereinafter collectively referred to as: the children ).

By order of the court of Noord-Holland, location Haarlem of 10 February 2016, the parents are jointly charged with custody of the children .


3.2
The children have been under the supervision of the GI since 8 January 2016 . The supervision order has always been extended since then.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, the supervision of the children was extended to 8 July 2019 at the latest (part of the GI's request to be assessed at the time) .


4.2
The mother requests, with (partial) annulment of the contested decision, to reject the initial request of the GI , or at least to reject the request insofar as this relates to child A.


4.3
The GI requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
At the discretion of the court it is before the time of the contested decision that grounds were available for extending the supervision of the children and whether these grounds are (still) present.


5.2
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 260, first paragraph, in connection with Article 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), the juvenile court judge may extend the supervision of a minor by a maximum of one year if a minor grows up in such a way that development seriously is threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.3
The mother is of the opinion that the grounds for extending the supervision order are not present. According to her, there is no serious development threat with the children , at least not with child A. child A develops in an age-appropriate manner and there is emotional growth in child A.

In addition, the mother has always been benevolent and cooperated in attending discussions and evaluations and has participated in intensive system therapy, reasons why the mother believes that - if there were any development threats - a forced framework is not necessary is to avert this threat .

According to the mother is an extension of the supervision order , with the reason to monitor the access arrangements (in this case a co-parenting arrangement regarding child C and child B and less comprehensive care arrangements for child A) prohibited by case law. The mother is committed to improving communication with the father by maintaining e-mail contact with him. The motherbelieves that there is now sufficient basic respect between the parties to stop having to interact with each other in a forced framework, since this appears to have the opposite effect on the parents , which in turn has an effect on the children .


5.4
The GI takes the position that there is still a developmental threat to the children . The supervision order has not only been pronounced to monitor the access arrangements between the father and the children . The children are confronted with a continuous struggle between the parents , whereby the parents are unable to communicate with each other and make agreements about the division of care and upbringing tasks. To restore contact between the father and thechildren to monitor, evidence to give to the parents for the development of the children and the deployed assistance to continue, the eight GI extension of the supervision order is necessary.


5.5
At the hearing on appeal, the Council advised it to ratify the contested decision.


5.6
The father is of the opinion that the supervision order must continue.


5.7
The court considers the following.

The parents split up in 2013. From July 2014, the mother did not allow the children to have contact with the father because of her belief that the father would have sexually abused the children . Criminal investigation led to the conclusion of the Public Prosecution Service at the end of 2015 that the father was wrongly designated as a suspect. The council , which was requested by the court to give advice in the proceedings concerning authority and interaction , has decided to to start protection research , which led to the supervision of the children . Assistance was then deployed from Arkin. Under the guidance of Arkin, contact between child B and child C with their father was restored in May 2017 . They currently see each other unaccompanied at their father's home and that contact is going well. After this, an attempt was made to establish contact between father and child A. This has not been possible to date.


5.8
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that at the time of the contested decision there was a development threat to the children . That developmental threat consisted primarily of the children, following the mother 's conviction that the father would have been guilty of sexual abuse , grew up with a very negative image of the father for a number of years while in that period has not been in contact with him. This has been very harmful to the children and their emotional and sexual developmenthas been seriously threatened by this and that situation is still continuing. With regard to child A, there are major concerns about her overall development , health, educational disadvantage and absenteeism and the way in which she relates to her father . Furthermore, the mother is unable to comply with the access arrangement between the father and child A, as determined by the court . Although child B and child C have contact with their father in accordance with the co-parenting scheme, the question is whether they can have uncontacted contact with their father at the moment . With child C and child B behaviors are seen that indicate loyalty problems . The parents are unable to reach agreements with the help of Arkin, so that peace and clarity is created for the children .

Although there was still a positive development in 2018 , in the sense that the contact between child A and the father had been restored and the mother told the children that the father was not guilty of sexual abuse , this positive development was halted. The battle between the parents flared up again at the end of 2018 by an anonymous report to Veilig Thuis and the statements by child B and child C about their father. There is still a situation where the children experience problems with the struggle and tensions between the parents , so that there are still serious concerns about the development of the children .


5.9
The mother states that the assistance for child A could be started more quickly without being placed under supervision . The pediatrician and the general practitioner have advised psychological help from Lucertis for child A, but so far the GI has not continued. The mother is of the opinion that the parents are capable of arranging this assistance in collaboration with the assistance provided in an urgent framework .

The Court of Appeal, however, considers that assistance within an urgent framework is insufficient to be able to offer parents sufficient guidance. Although the mother indicates that she her cooperation will grant aid , considers the court is unlikely that they already are able without being forced under accepting the necessary assistance and to use so that a reduction in the developing threat of children leads.


5.10
On the basis of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the grounds for extending the custody for a period of six months were present at the time of the contested decision and are still present today. The conclusion is that the decision to extend the supervision order must be maintained until 8 July 2019.

The Court of Appeal will reject the request of the mother on appeal and ratify the contested decision.


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal is made;

orders the clerk to send a copy of this decision to the clerk of the court of Noord-Holland (location Haarlem), civil law department, family and juvenile law team for the attention of the public register under the provisions of the Decision on authority registers.

This decision was made by L. van Dijk, AN van de Beek, and JMC Louwinger-Rijk, in the presence of A. Blijleven, as clerk of the court, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 2 July 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 2257