Content indication
Moral case. The court of appeal has sentenced the manager of a sports park for the assault of a 17-year-old girl. In addition to the punishment, imposing a contact ban is deemed necessary.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-22
Publication date
2019-06-03
Case number
23-002553-18
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
Department of criminal law

Parquet number: 23-002553-18

Date of judgment: 22 February 2019

Contradiction

Abridged judgment of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal pointed to the appeal brought against the judgment of the Noord-Holland court of 2 July 2018 in the criminal case under public prosecutor's office number 15-002969-18 against

suspect ,

born in place of birth on date of birth 1 1964,

address: address.

Investigation of the case
This judgment was delivered on the basis of the investigation at the hearing on appeal of 8 February 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422, second paragraph, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the basis of the investigation at the hearing at first instance.

An appeal has been lodged against the above judgment on behalf of the accused.

The Court of Appeal has taken cognizance of the advocate-general's claim and of what has been put forward by the suspect and counsel .

Indictment
In view of the change admitted by the court of appeal, the accused was charged with the following:

on (or about 26 April 2017 in Hoofddorp, municipality of Haarlemmermeer, at least in the Netherlands, by force or other fact and / or threatening with violence or another fact, victim (born on day of birth 2) (each time) forced him to commit and / or tolerate one or more abusive acts, namely

- touching the chest (s) and / or buttocks of that victim and / or (some time later)

- kissing the victim's cheek while simultaneously touching the victim 's chest and / or

- (subsequently) turning over the body of that victim so that she stood with her back against the belly of him, the suspect, and / or

- (subsequently) touching the inside of the thigh of that victim

and what violence or other factual fact and / or threat with violence or other factual fact this consisted of:

- unexpectedly and suddenly proceeding with the above-mentioned actions, and / or

- that he, the suspect, has positioned himself in the opening of the counter behind which the victim was located, as a result of which he blocked the passage for that victim and / or that she could not get behind the counter and / or

- while he, suspect because of the age difference between him and that victim and because of what he, suspect, had at the baseball club, had a de facto prevalence over that victim, which caused him, suspect, to create a threatening situation for that victim that she had assumed could not withdraw.

Insofar as language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, the court will read them in an improved way. The suspect is therefore not harmed in the defense.

Verdict whose appeal
The judgment whose appeal will be set aside, because the court of appeal comes to a different statement of evidence than the court.

Evidence considerations
Unlike the defense, based on the content of the evidence, the court of appeal is of the opinion that the suspect has assaulted the complainant.

The court does not consider the defendant's statement at the hearing on appeal that, with her permission, he only gave twice a friendly hug to him because he was cold. In doing so, the court takes into account the report, its support by the message that the complainant sent to her friend immediately after the incident and the messages that the suspect sent to the complainant after the second hug, meaning that he should never have been so bold and that he is afraid that she has got a bad feeling.

From the file it emerged that the suspect touched and touched the complainant on two different occasions. The suspect has touched her buttocks and chest (s) with his hands, kissed her on the cheek, pulled her up from a sitting position and then turned it over as a result of which she stood with her back to his stomach and his hand touched the inside of her thigh.

Between the first and the second contact, the suspect sent a message to the defendant, stating:

'Hey girlfriend, I think you are REALLY nice and warm. Great! " In the opinion of the court, the content of this message indicates, within the context of what had happened before, an intimate rapprochement with a sexual charge on the part of the suspect.

The incident took place in the sports park shop where both were members or employed; The complainant sat / stood behind the counter, which was at the counter near the entrance to the store. The circumstance that the space behind the counter and the window behind it is limited has not been challenged on appeal. The suspect has thus performed the actions described in a place where the complainant - whether or not due to her own factual position and that of the suspect - had little room for maneuver. He also approached her and unexpectedly touched her with such force that the complainant was unable to push the suspect's hand away from her buttocks. By acting in the context described, the suspect - taking into account his factual superiority as manager of the sports park, that the complainant in his own words (therefore) looked up at him and given the large age difference between the two (the suspect was then 1 year old, the complainant was age 2) - deliberately caused a situation in which it was so difficult for the complainant to adhere to those acts to withdraw that she was forced by the suspect to tolerate it. The fact that the complainant complied with his first request for 'a hug' does not affect thecoercion under which they had to tolerate its subsequent touches.

In the light of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the described cross-border acts of a sexual nature of the suspect can be qualified as indecent and considers that the suspect has been guilty of the assault as charged.

Proof of declaration
The Court of Appeal considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the accused committed the charges, on the understanding that:

on 26 April 2017 in Hoofddorp, municipality of Haarlemmermeer, he was forced by a de facto victim, born on day of birth 2, to tolerate abusive acts, namely

- touching the victim 's chest and buttocks and (some time later)

- kissing the cheek of that victim while simultaneously touching the victim 's chest and

- (subsequently) turning over the body of that victim, as a result of which she stood with her back against the belly of him, the suspect, and

- (subsequently) touching the inside of the thigh of that victim and

the factual nature of this:

- unexpectedly and suddenly proceeding with the above actions, and

- positioning himself in the opening of the counter behind which the victim was located, as a result of which he blocked the passage for that victim and she could not get away from behind the counter and

- while, suspect because of the age difference between him and that victim and because of what he, suspect, had at the baseball club, he had a de facto prevalence over that victim, as a result of which he, suspect, created a situation for that victim that she did not adhere to could tap.

What has been charged more or differently has not been proven. The suspect must be acquitted of this.

The proven evidence is based on the facts and circumstances that are contained in the means of evidence, such as these will be included in the supplement to this judgment after the possible appeal in cassation.

Punishability of the proven
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the punishability of what has been proven, so that it is punishable.

The proven certified provides:

actual assault of honor, committed several times.

Punishability of the suspect
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the suspect's punishability with regard to the proven statement, so that the suspect is punishable.

Imposition of punishment
The Noord-Holland District Court sentenced the accused to a proven sentence at first instance for a term of 180 hours, of which 80 hours conditionally with a probationary period of two years. In addition to the general, the court also imposed a special condition on the suspect (contact ban).

The Advocate General has requested that the accused will be sentenced to one day's imprisonment and community service for 180 hours, of which conditionally 80 hours, with a probationary period of two years and, under special conditions, a contact - and a location ban.

The defendant's counsel has submitted the following in the context of the punishment (measure). As a result of this fact, the sports association has canceled the cooperation with the suspect and has verbally informed him that he is no longer welcome. The suspect has therefore not seen his son, who is also an active member of the association, playing 'at home' for a long time, while he would like to. The suspect's wife has stopped her voluntary work for the association. The suspect was forced to start his own DIY company, with which he can just keep his head above water.

All in all, the suspect has already been adequately punished and, in this case, as a first-offender, he should at most be given a suspended sentence. The lawyer considers the imposition of prohibitions as demanded by the Advocate General exaggerated.

On appeal, the Court of Appeal determined the punishment to be imposed on the basis of the seriousness of the offense and the circumstances in which it was committed and in view of the person of the suspect. The Court of Appeal in particular took the following into consideration.

The suspect, working as manager of a sports park, was guilty of the assault of the complainant, a girl of age 2 who worked in the store of the sports club. Because of his factual superiority in connection with his physical position and the unexpected nature of his course of action, he has placed a minor girl in such a way that she could not escape his repeated touch. He has therefore infringed her physical integrity. With his behavior the suspect has given priority to his own needs and has in no way taken into account the adverse consequences of his actions. Witness the mother 's statementof the complainant at the hearing on appeal, the incident had a major impact on her daughter and she struggled for a long time with mental and other health complaints as a result. Even now, almost two years later, the incident, which she has not been able to close due to the appeal proceedings, keeps her busy. The Court of Appeal very much charges the suspect for his cross-border behavior.

Unlike the counsel , the court of appeal is of the opinion that only a fully conditional punishment does not do justice to the nature and seriousness of the offense. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, sufficient justice is done to the seriousness of the fact by imposing a community service order in combination with a suspended prison sentence.

According to an extract from the Judicial Documentation of 25 January 2019 concerning the suspect, he has not previously been convicted of criminal charges.

All in all, the Court of Appeal considers a community service order of the duration to be reported appropriate and appropriate. In addition, the court will, given the nature and seriousness of the offense, impose a fully conditional prison sentence on the suspect. In the context of the probationary period of two years, the Court of Appeal, in view of the described testimony of the victim 's mother at the hearing on appeal, considers a contact ban against the applicant to be appropriate in this case.

On the other hand, the Court of Appeal, considering the victim's interest against the personal interest of the suspect and considering the passage of time since the proven fact, does not see sufficient grounds for imposing a location ban as a special condition in addition to the ban on contact with the victim that has already been imposed .

Applicable legal requirements
The punishment to be imposed is based on Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 22c, 22d, 57 and 246 of the Criminal Code .

These legal regulations are applied as applicable at the time of the proven.

DECISION
The court:

Destroys the judgment that appeals and does justice again:

Declares, as considered above, proven that the accused committed the charges.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than has been proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares the proven criminal offense, qualifies this as mentioned above and declares the suspect punishable.

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for the duration of 1 (one) month .

Determines that the prison sentence will not be enforced, unless the judge may later order otherwise because the suspect has committed a criminal offense before the end of a probationary period of 2 (two) years or the suspect during the probationary period of 2 ( two) years for the purpose of establishing his identity has not cooperated with taking one or more fingerprints or has not provided proof of identity as referred to in Article 1 of the Compulsory Identification Act or has not cooperated with the probation supervision, as referred to in Article 14d (2) of the Criminal Code , the cooperation home visits included, or has not complied with the special condition (s) below.

Sets as a special condition that the convicted person is forbidden to make contact during the entire probationary period or to have him or her contacted, born on day of birth 2, as long as the probation officer deems this necessary.

Sentences the suspect to community service for the duration of 100 (one hundred) hours , if not properly performed, to be replaced by 50 (fifty) days in custody .

This judgment was delivered by the multiple criminal chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal, which included Mr. RD van Heffen, Mr. MJA Duker and Mr. MLM van der Voet, in the presence of Mr. A. Scheffens, Registrar, and was pronounced at the public hearing of this court of

February 22, 2019.

Mr. RD van Heffen and MLM van der Voet are outside to co-sign this judgment.

================================================================ =======================

...

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 609