Content indication
Determining partner alimony . Need , court norm . Housing costs insurance . No limitation or zeroing in the long term.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-06-27
Publication date
2019-11-26
Case number
200.251.058 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.251.058

(case number court Overijssel 217122)

decision of 27 June 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: MPLM Buijsrogge in Arnhem, the Netherlands,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: EG Blankestijn in Almelo.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of Overijssel, Almelo court, of 11 October 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

the appeal with productions, received on 12 December 2018;
the defense with productions;
a journal report from mr. Buijsrogge of 19 April 2019 with productions;
a journal report from Mr. Blankestijn of 26 April 2019 with productions, and
a letter from mr. Buijsrogge of 29 April 2019 with productions.

2.2
The minor to be referred to below as the minor1 has, by letter received on 13 February 2019, made known its opinion with regard to the request.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 9 May 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers.

3. The facts


3.1
The marriage of the parties was dissolved in 2017 by the registration of the divorce decree of 3 July 2017 in the registers of civil status.


3.2
The husband and wife are the parents of:

the minor1, born in 2002 in C, and
the minor2, born in 2005 in A.

3.3
By order of 2 August 2017, the court ruled that from 1 August 2017 the husband must pay € 144 per child per month as a contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the children .


3.4
By order of 20 December 2018, the Overijssel court, Almelo seat, placed the children under the supervision of the Overijssel Youth Protection Foundation from 20 December 2018 to 20 December 2019.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, declared enforceable by stock, the court amended the decision of 2 August 2017 and set the man's contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the children from 3 April 2018 on:

€ 679 per month for the minor1 and
€ 533 per month for the minor2.
The court has also determined that the husband will pay the wife as a contribution to the cost of her living expenses € 3,832 per month from 3 April 2018.


4.2
The man appealed against the contested decision.

By order of February 28, 2019, this court requests the man by way of an interim injunction the alimony as of February 4, 2019 for the period of determining the proceedings at € 3.433, - gross per month, or alternatively the suspension recommended of the operation of the contested decision as far as partner alimony is concerned, rejected.


4.3
In this appeal, the man requests that the contested decision be annulled and the contribution to be paid by him for the costs of care and upbringing of the children to be set with effect from 8 October 2018 on:

€ 522 per month for the benefit of the minor1 and
€ 449 per month for the benefit of the minor2.
He also wants to reject the woman's request to determine ( primarily) a contribution to be paid by her for the cost of living , or alternatively to determine that contribution not earlier than 11 October 2018 and that contribution - then - primarily to limit until July 1, 2021 and subsidiary at zero set by June 1, 2021.


4.4
The woman has submitted a statement of defense. It requests the Court of Appeal to declare the man in his appeal to be inadmissible or to reject those requests and to ratify the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision
The starting date


5.1
The man argues that the court has incorrectly determined 3 April 2018 as the starting date of the maintenance to be paid by him . This, he says, a date set after April 3, 2018, because he is unable to alimony with retroactive meet.

The court will, like the court, determine the commencement date of the alimony to be determined on 3 April 2018. It is not in dispute that the income of the man has changed from March 2018 and that the former marital home of parties on 3 April 2018 has been sold and delivered. Both changes: in income and in the burdens that affect that income , influence the man 's ability to pay; the man should have realized that. In view of his maintenance obligation, he could and should have taken into account a change at that time in the alimony to be paid to the children and the wife.

The child support


5.2
The parties agree that the needs of the children to help their parents in the cost of their care and upbringing € 726, - per child per month. The man states that the woman can be expected to work more than she currently does, so that she has more capacity to contribute to the costs of the children .

The court agrees with the man that the woman can be expected to make an effort to expand her work to generate a higher income , but also finds that the woman has made it sufficiently plausible that she now, under the current circumstances, is unable to expand her business and thus increase her income . The children have received the necessary divorce issues from the parties and have recently been placed under supervision . In addition, the woman is under psychiatric treatment and is suffering from a post- traumatic stress disorder . Now the childrenthe parties require extra care from the woman and, moreover, she must recover from her complaints, the court does not consider her to be able to work more than she does now. In addition, the court takes into account that taking into account higher than actual earnings on the part of the caring parent leads to the fact that if that higher income is not realized, the children will suffer. After all, they are deemed to be in need , that is, they cannot be expected to provide for their own costs of care and education with their own resources or merits . For that reason it is appropriate to accept fictional merits on the part of the caregiverparent greater restraint than on the part of the non-caring parent .

The Court of Appeal will also assume the current situation, in which the woman, based on her actual income, has the capacity to contribute € 25 per child per month to the costs of the children .


5.3
the minor2 regularly stays with the man in the context of the division of care and upbringing duties. The man agrees with the 25% healthcare discount that the court applied to the minor2 . Although he acknowledges that he is not in contact with the minor now1, the man wants the court to take a care discount of 15% instead of 5% in the calculation of the contribution to the costs of its care and upbringing , such as the court did.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the man has not made his argument that the woman frustrates the interaction between him and the minor1 against the woman's motivated dispute. Now that there is no contact at all between the man and the minor1 , the court will also assume a care discount of 5% with regard to the contribution for the minor1 . The court understands the man's wish that his contact with the minor1 will be restored and expects that parties, possibly with the help of the family guardian, will commit to this contact recovery and that they will be able to get the care discount adjust if necessary in mutual consultation.

The court also notes that the care off is to an easily offset the custodial parent on the days when there is interaction between the children and the other parent stays related cost savings while the other parent that cost those moments are wearing . If there is no contact between the man and the minor1, there is no question of savings on the one hand and expenditure on the other. By nevertheless taking a - minor - care discount into account, the Court of Appeal aims to provide a certain incentive to re-establish contact between the minor1 and the man.


5.4
Now that all the man's complaints with regard to child support fail, the Court of Appeal will confirm the contested decision, insofar as it establishes the man's contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the children .

The partner alimony


5.5
Parties are divided between the needs of women, the extent to which they can meet that need and the capacity of men.

The needs of women


5.6
On the basis of the needs list submitted by the woman, the court set the woman 's need - after correction - at € 3,254 net per month and her additional need , after deducting her gross income of € 500, - per month. € 5,262 gross per month.

The husband is of the opinion that the court norm in this case is not suitable for determining the needs of the wife, because at the time of their marriage the parties had high double housing costs for a few years , which burdens (the money with which they were paid) At that time, therefore, they were not directly used for their livelihood and therefore cannot now determine the marriage-related need of women.

Deployed by the woman and the court partially corrected Requirements List as the man is not an indication of the needs of women, since then not connect common items with actual spending of the woman. The court applied the needs fixing as claimed the man a miscalculation: the net requirement of € 3.254, - should be reduced with net income of (The court) € 500, -. The net additional requirement of € 2,754 will then result in a gross additional requirement of € 4,900 per month.

If the court norm were nevertheless applied, then according to the man that would result in a total requirement of € 3,363 net per month. The additional requirement after deduction of the woman 's net income of (according to the man) € 497 per month: € 2,866 net / € 5,000 gross per month.


5.7
The court considers as follows. When determining the need for a living allowance , all relevant circumstances must be taken into account, including the amount and nature of both the income and expenses of the parties during the marriage . Therein an indication can be found of the degree of well-being in which they have lived. Furthermore, concrete data concerning the actual or expected costs of living of the maintenance creditor should be taken into account as much as possible .

For the welfare of the parties, the Court of Appeal takes into account that there is no dispute between the parties that their income was always fully spent at the time of their marriage to provide for the cost of living and that it has not been stated or proved that those expenses other than benefited the parties equally. It may be that, according to the man's statement , the parties had high double housing costs for a few years at the time of their marriage , but the fact that the parties were able to bear those costs for a long period constitutes, in the opinion of the court an indication of the wealth in which they lived.

Next, it must be considered what financial resources are needed to maintain a state that matches that marital prosperity. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the court norm , which takes the net disposable family income during the marriage as a starting point, is a clear and in practice easy-to-use benchmark that leads to a realistic estimate of the post-marital need of the maintenance creditor. It is then up to the woman, for example, as in the present case, on the basis of a list of needsto show which expenditure items belong to that wealth. Contrary to what the man apparently means to argue, it is not up to the court to consider individual spending choices: higher expenses in one area (such as living, relaxation or personal care) are compensated by lower expenses in another area (ditto ). Thus, the application of this measure also has the additional advantage for former spouses that they are not placed in a position where they are forced to unnecessarily escalate discussions about individual cost items on a list of requirements .

Now that the woman has agreed to the amount of € 3,254 net per month applied by the court, the court will also base the further assessment on that amount, which moreover is virtually the same as the need according to the court norm .

The need of the woman


5.8
The man has stated that the woman can be expected to extend her current employment in order to provide for her own subsistence as much as possible . According to him, the woman must be able to generate an income of € 2,340 gross / € 1,974 net per month. The woman has disputed that.

The Court of Appeal, as has already been considered in this regard in 5.2 with regard to the capacity of the woman with regard to child support , is of the opinion that the woman can be expected to make an effort to expand her work to achieve a higher generate income . However, in the circumstances, in which the children of the parties require extra care from her and she also has to recover from her complaints, the court does not yet consider her to be able to work more than she currently does. The Court of Appeal therefore also bases the determination of its additional need on the income of € 500 gross per month taken into account by the court .


5.9
The Court of Appeal assumes an additional need of the woman, since she has not disputed the amounts stated on behalf of the man on the occasion of the oral hearing on appeal according to the court norm or insufficiently reasoned, of € 5,000 gross per month.

The man 's capacity


5.10
Just like the court, the Court of Appeal calculates the man 's ability to pay based on his income of, according to the salary specification of April 2018, € 14,583 gross per month, plus holiday allowance.


5.11
Like the court, the court takes into account the ZVW premium paid by the man of € 140 per month and the deductible of € 32.


5.12
The man has bought a house with his current partner . A mortgage loan of € 865,000 was concluded for this. The notional rental value is € 5,206 per year.

The man owes monthly:

€ 2,281.33 in interest;
€ 1,130 in repayment , and
€ 47 in life insurance premium.
He also pays € 124.30 per month for housing costs insurance premium , which man says must be taken into account, because parties have had to use this insurance once at the time of their marriage , which has saved them a lot of money.

According to the man, in this case it is necessary to deviate from the principle that his ability to pay should take into account the fact that his partner pays half of the housing costs. In view of her income of € 2,024, for the part of the housing costs to be paid by her, it must be linked to the lump-sum housing costs component of 30% in the child support formula of child support . This amounts to € 607 net per month.


5.13
The woman has not disputed the existence or the amount of the aforementioned charges, apart from the housing costs insurance . It is the man's choice to continue this insurance and therefore the relevant premium should not be taken into account when calculating his financial capacity . She also believes that housing costs are unreasonably high and should be moderated in view of the man's maintenance obligation, and that the man should also share these costs with his partner, in the sense that they each bear half of them.


5.14
The court takes into account the man entered housing costs , including the premium for living expenses insurance , since the man - undisputed - stated that insurance already at the time of marriage consisted of parties and has come to benefit, and that the income of the man has risen sharply since then, but the man and his new partner have also agreed on a very high housing cost , whereby covering the risks is acceptable to a certain extent.

When asked at the hearing, the man stated that he had concluded a cohabitation contract with his new partner, but he was unable to explain what agreements they had made with regard to their mutual obligation to pay interest and repayment . In view of this, the court sees no reason to deviate from the principle that partners each bear half of the net housing costs . The Court of Appeal notes that the husband and his partner have bought the house in the knowledge of the man's maintenance obligations.

There is no question of unreasonably high housing costs since they only have a 50% burden on the income of the man and there is therefore no reason to further moderate these costs in the sense requested by the woman.


5.15
In view of all of the foregoing, as well as the tax consequences of this, the Court of Appeal considers that the man is able, in addition to the contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the children, of € 701 per child per month (including the care discount and excluding the women pay contribution of € 25, - per child per month) a contribution to the cost of living to pay the wife of € 4283, - per month.


5.16
The man requested contribution in the cost of living of women in time to limit or term set to zero. The court considers as follows.

Limiting the obligation to provide maintenance is generally only possible if the person entitled to maintenance can meet his or her own needs after the expiry of that period with probability bordering on certainty . This is not the case here, on the contrary: the possibilities of women to earn an income through work are currently limited and (see 5.2 and 5.8) it is uncertain whether and to what extent she can expand her work and earning capacity . It is doubtful that she will be able to fully meet her marriage-related needs on July 1, 2021 . For limiting themaintenance obligation is therefore currently not a ground.

This also applies to a zeroing within the period requested by the man. Although the woman may be expected to make an effort to increase her earning capacity and generate an income , it does not look like she will be able to earn an income of € 3,254 net (plus indexing ) from 1 June 2021 acquire. It should also be noted that increasing the woman 's income may lead to a decrease in her entitlement to partner alimony, albeit that with her own income increasing the woman 's own share in the costs of the children increases.


6 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will annul the contested decision, insofar as it determines the contribution to the cost of living of the woman, and will decide as mentioned below. The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision for the rest.


7 Attaching a capacity calculation
The court made a calculation of the man 's capacity . A certified copy of this calculation is attached to this decision and forms part of it.


8 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

Annuls the decision of the District Court of Overijssel, Almelo Court of Appeal, of 11 October 2018, insofar as the contribution to the cost of living of the woman has been determined and, with effect from 3 April 2018, sets this contribution at € 4,283 per month;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

for the rest, upholds the contested decision;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. JB de Groot, JH Lieber and G. van de Beek, assisted by GEM Bours as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 27 June 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 5346