Content indication
Assessment of grounds for placing under supervision Article 1: 255 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code. Continued struggle between parents poses a real development threat to minors and voluntary framework assistance is not sufficient at this time.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-26
Publication date
2019-03-11
Case number
200.241.610 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.241.610 / 01

Court case number: C / 15/272403 / JU RK 18-620

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 26 February 2019 concerning

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. K. Spaargaren in Hilversum,

and

Child Protection Board Noord-Holland,

location Haarlem,

respondent on appeal,

to be called: the council .

The following are considered as stakeholders:

- the father (hereinafter referred to as: the father );

- Youth Protection Region Amsterdam (hereinafter: the family institution, GI).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Noord-Holland court (Haarlem) (hereinafter referred to as: the court) of 11 April 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 27 June 2018 against the aforementioned decision of 11 April 2018.


2.2
Mr. K. van Bijsterveld, lawyer in Hilversum, submitted a statement of defense on 24 August 2018 on behalf of the father .


2.3
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a letter from the council of 13 August 2018, received on 15 August 2018, in which the council indicates that it will defend itself at a session.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 3 December 2018.

The following were present:

- the mother with her lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. DM van Dijk;

- the father with his lawyer.


2.5
No representative appeared on behalf of the GI , although properly summoned.


3 The facts

3.1
The father and the mother had a relationship. They have a child together:

the minor (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ), born in 2017 in the place of birth (Belgium). the minor lives with the mother . The mother exercises authority over the minor . The father has recognized the minor .


3.2
The father started legal proceedings at the court on 11 May 2017. He thereby requested joint custody of the minor and the establishment of a contact arrangement with the minor .


3.3
In an interim decision of 22 November 2017, the court - insofar as it is currently relevant - asked the council to conduct an investigation and to issue advice with regard to authority and interaction .


3.4
The Council has expanded the investigation to include a protection investigation . The council report of 3 April 2018 - insofar as it is currently relevant - requested that the minor be placed under the supervision of the GI for a period of one year .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision placed the minor under the supervision of the GI from 11 April 2018 to 11 April 2019.


4.2
The mother requests that, with the annulment of the contested decision, the preliminary request by the Council for the care of the minor be rejected.


4.3
At the hearing, the council requested that the contested decision be ratified.


4.4
The father requests that the contested decision be ratified and that the mother be ordered to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings of the father , including attorney's fees.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The court may a 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW): Pursuant to Article 1 minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
The mother argues - in summary - that there is no serious development threat to the minor , so that the legal criterion for being placed under supervision is not met . The purpose of taking custody is for an improper purpose to break the mother's opposition to an access arrangement . A custody will not change the mother 's view . That the situation escalates is because the mother is being questioned with the trial access regulationsof two visits per week. This current, too high intercourse frequency leads to more tension and escalation between the parents . In addition, less far-reaching measures than a supervision order can be deployed, such as the community house . This is going reasonably well, and there is no room for supervision .


5.3
The Council argues - succinctly stated - that there is a serious development threat to the minor and that parents are currently insufficiently willing and able to remove that threat in a voluntary framework and to accept assistance . Although little has been done to date, supervision should continue. There is little confidence in the progress in a voluntary framework. There is a major role for youth care . It must be examined what the options for assistance are, what the parents can and want to do.


5.4
The father states - in summary - that the mother does not comply with judicial decisions, does not adhere to agreements and is not willing to accept assistance . Given the young age of the minor , however, it is crucial in this phase for the bonding process that he has regular contact with the father . The Board noted that there are no obstacles for interaction . The grounds for placing the child under supervision have been met .


5.5
The court considers as follows. The proceedings at the hearing and the documents in the file, including a report from the Council of 3 April 2018, have shown that there is poor understanding and difficult communication between the parents . The relationship between the parties had already ended before the minor , now two years old, was born. After the birth of the minor , the father several months dealing had with him in the house of the mother , usually in the presence of grandmother (mother's side), and the mother of the associationhas stopped. The parties have tried in vain to resolve their conflicts through mediation . The father has started a bottom-up procedure with the use of joint custody and interaction with the minor . At the request of the court, the council issued an advice, which includes the decision on the requests for joint authority and an access arrangement for the duration of one year, pending the results of assistance . In addition, on the grounds stated in the report , the council submitted a request for the minor to be supervised . That request was granted in the contested decision.


5.6
The determined under 3.3 mentioned interim decision the court has temporary legislation whereby the father and the minor interaction with each other every Thursday and Sunday from 13:30 to 15:00 at the home of the mother . As part of the supervision order , contact has been started at the community center in order to support and guide the parties and to map the parenting skills of the father . The supervised approach would be evaluated early in 2019.


5.7
From the Board's examination revealed that the minor is in itself a healthy and happy boy who is physically and cognitively well developed . Both parents love the minor a lot and they both want him to grow up well and safely. On the other hand, the report provides sufficient starting points for the conclusion that there is a real threat to the development of the minor . the minor is confronted with a continuous struggle between his parents about the nature and frequency of the contact he can have with his father and the way in whichparents give substance to this. The relationship between the parents is so disturbed that the minor can not have untaxed contact with his father . The limited interaction that existed in the past took place in a (very) tense situation, which also had its (physical) impact on the minor . Also the contact moments that have now taken place at the Omgangshuis have created tensions with the parents and, according to the mother , with the minor . Furthermore, both the council report and the appeal hearing showed that the mother experiences feelings of tension and insecurity towards the father . The father is unable to dispel these feelings and does everything to establish contact with the minor , which causes even more tension in the mother . This, partly in view of the young age of the minor and the fact that he has not yet been able to develop a close bond with his father , poses a problem of attachment. In addition, the tensions between the parents, as is clear from the foregoing, their impact on the minor . The fact that, as the mother argues, the current tense situation has to do with the fact that the court, by order of 22 November 2017, determined two visits per week, the Court does not consider likely, since, according to the aforementioned decision, serious tensions between the parents . In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, in view of the above, the grounds for being placed under supervision have been met .


5.8
Furthermore, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the forced framework of the supervision order is necessary in order to avert the development threat to the minor ; a voluntary framework is not sufficient at this time. At the time of the oral hearing on appeal, contact with the House of Commons had started cautiously, but that did not happen without a struggle . It may be that delay in the start of the process is (partly) caused by agenda coordination with the mother, but that does not mean that the mother rejects the fatherhas (for the time being) no confidence in his parenting skills and that there are real doubts about whether she is sufficiently open and willing to provide assistance . The willingness expressed by the mother for this is not sufficient. There must be effective acceptance and utilization of that care (to a sufficient extent). The assistance provided through the Omgangshuis is relatively recent and it is too early to conclude that the mother will accept the deployed - necessary assistance - sufficiently steadily. The picture that emerged at the hearing currently provides insufficient reason for this.

The fact that the actual execution of the supervision order was only started a few months after the contested decision does not lead to a different opinion. The family guardian has an important task in guiding further assistance and developments , which must lead to the real development threat of the minor being removed.

In view of the above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.


5.9
Given the nature of the proceedings, the court sees insufficient reason to order the mother to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings as requested by the father . The court will therefore reject this request.


6 The decision
The court:

endorses the decision of the Noord-Holland District Court (Haarlem) of 11 April 2018;

requests the Registrar to send a copy of this decision to the Registrar of the Court of Noord-Holland (Haarlem), Civil Law Division, Family and Juvenile Law Team, for the attention of the public register, pursuant to the provisions of the Authority Registers Decree ;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by J. Jonkers, LL.M.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 711