Content indication
The Court is of the opinion that the grounds for the supervision of the children are no longer present. The GI has taken insufficient concrete steps and has used resources to achieve the goals.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-09-03
Publication date
2019-09-04
Case number
200.258.515 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
JPF 2019/135 with annotation by Graaf, JH de
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.258.515 / 01

Court case number: C / 13/661773 / JE RK 19-141

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 3 September 2019 on

the father ,

living at home,

applicant in the main appeal,

defendant in the incidental appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the father ,

lawyer: RS Rabarison in Amsterdam,

and

the certified institution Youth Protection Region Amsterdam,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent in the main appeal,

applicant in the incidental appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following are considered as other stakeholders:

- the mother (hereinafter referred to as: the mother );

- the minor A (hereafter referred to as: child A);

- the minor B (hereafter referred to as: child B).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

Amsterdam region,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ) of 14 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The father appealed on 26 April 2019 against the above-mentioned order of 14 March 2019.


2.2
On 28 June 2019, the GI filed a statement of defense, including an incidental appeal.


2.3
On 7 August 2019, the chairman spoke separately with child A and child B in the presence of the registrar . At the hearing, the chairman presented the content of these discussions in a business-like manner.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 8 August 2019. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by RS Rabarison, LL.M.

- the family manager, on behalf of the GI;

- the mother .

The council, although properly summoned, did not appear.

The father 's lawyer submitted a pleading with an attachment at the hearing, namely a letter from the Public Prosecution Service dated 23 May 2019 to the father containing a notice of termination.


3 The facts

3.1
From the (now dissolved divorce ) marriage of the mother and the father (hereinafter collectively referred to as: the parents ) are born:

- child A, in 2002, in Suriname, and

- child B, in 2004, at the place of birth.

The parents exercise joint custody of child A and child B (hereinafter collectively referred to as: the children ). The children stay with the father .


3.2
By order of the court Amsterdam from August 2, 2017, to the extent that now appeal of interest between the parties to the divorce pronounced, is the primary residence of the children to the father determined the request of the father to him only with the authority the children refused to be taxed and the request of the mother to choose between her and the children a care scheme set also rejected firmly.


3.3
By order of the juvenile court of 5 October 2018, at the request of the council , the children were placed under the supervision of the GI for a period of six months, namely until 5 April 2019.


3.4
The GI is the father on January 29, 2019 a written instruction given to provide assistance and support to make calls between the children and the GI, a home visit and the assistance carried out by Own Plan. This written instruction was confirmed by decision of 14 March 2019.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision is under the guardianship of the children extended for a period of six months, ie until October 5th 2019. This decision was taken at the request of the GI to the supervision order be extended for a period of one year, ie until 5 April 2020.


4.2
In the main appeal, the father requests that the GI 's request for an extension of the supervision order (still) be rejected , with annulment of the contested decision .


4.3
The GI calls in principal appeal the father is not inadmissible in its application, at least to reject his request.

The GI requests in cross-appealed the request of the GI extension of the supervision order still to be allocated for a period of one year, at least the supervision order be extended for a period that the court sees fit.


4.4
The father requests that the GI 's request be rejected in an incidental appeal .


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
At the discretion of the court the question arises as to whether the grounds for extending the supervision of the children were present at the time of the contested decision and whether these grounds are (still) present, and if so, how long should the supervision be be extended.


5.2
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 260, first paragraph, in connection with Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), the juvenile court judge may extend the supervision of a minor by a maximum of one year if a minor grows up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.3
The father argues that the grounds for extending the supervision order were not present at the time of the contested decision and are not present either. The objectives set by the GI for placing under supervision are based on incorrect assumptions. They also do not provide sufficient grounds to justify a serious measure such as being placed under supervision . There is no question of a serious threat to the development of the children . The father has provided sufficient cooperation in the context of the supervision orderset goals. In October 2018 and November 2018, for example, five conversations took place with the children and two conversations with the father . There is therefore sufficient insight into the well-being, safety and educational environment of the children . In addition, the children are doing well . They have contact with friends and family, do fun things and have access to social media. The father gives the children room to have contact with the mother . Initially, he also encouraged the children to contact the mother . After the childrenhave repeatedly stated that they do not want contact with the mother , the father has respected this wish of the children . In addition, the Supreme Court sets high requirements for a custodial institution that is intended to establish an access arrangement between children and a parent . These high requirements are not met in the present situation. The children need rest and the father and the children want to continue their life. The pressure of the supervisory status , the continuous compulsion to contact recoverywith the mother , the conversations about the past and the threat of a possible out-of- home placement create a lot of tension with the children . This is not in their interest and the supervision is therefore beyond its objective. The contested decision must therefore be annulled and the request of the GI must be rejected, according to the father .


5.4
The GI takes the view that the grounds for extending the supervision order were present at the time of the contested decision and still exist today. The father and the children do not cooperate sufficiently in achieving the objectives set under supervision . The GI has made several attempts to talk to the father and the children . Also has the GI , the father of a written instruction given. However, this did not lead to cooperation with theassistance . As a result, there is currently still a threat to the development of the children . The father is still doing everything in his power to prevent the GI from gaining insight into the home situation. The children are under the influence of the father , so that they are not free to give their opinion. It follows from the council report that the council also has concerns about the living environment in which the children grow up and the social-emotional development of the children . There is no taxi interviewcan take place to make an assessment of safety , because the children did not cooperate in further investigation . The council got the impression that father's attitude played a role in this.

Due to the attitude of the father and the children , the goals set cannot be achieved. During the conversations that the family manager had with the children in October 2018 , the children only wanted to talk about school content. Since January 2019, the children no longer want to have any conversations with the GI. The GI has received insufficient insight into the well-being and safety of the children in the parenting situation with the father . The GI also has insufficient insight into leisure activities, the social network and sexual developmentand the psychosocial functioning of the children . The father and children deny the concerns, find that all GI questions have already been answered and find the conversation topics stressful . The mother also has no view of the children . With regard to the lack of contact between the mother and the children , the father does not provide insight into what he is doing to encourage the children to have contact with the mother . Let the children know that there is no contact with thewant to be a mother , but don't tell them the reason for this. The GI has concerns about parental alienation . The children can therefore possible psychological problems, reduced self-esteem and identity issues develop . Now that the set objectives have not yet been achieved, it is important that the supervision order continues even after 5 October 2019. The father 's request must therefore be rejected and the GI 's request to extend the supervision period should be granted for a period of one year, according to the GI.


5.5
The mother stated the following at the hearing on appeal. The mother has no contact with the children . She has been in contact with the children 's schools in the past period . She also tried to approach the children via social media. In addition, she has sent Child A cards to congratulate her on her birthday and on obtaining her final exam. Since being placed under supervision , it has not been possible to establish contact between the mother and the children . The mother understands that the children stressexperiencing supervision and wanting to have some rest. The mother especially wants to know how the children are doing. Her door is always open for them, according to the mother .


5.6
child A stated on the occasion of her conversation with the chairman that she is doing well at the moment. She recently passed her final exams and starts her advanced course at the end of August 2019. It goes well in the home situation with the father . In the context of a recent vacation to Suriname, she had contact with family members from both mother's and father's side . child A does not want contact with the mother at this time . This may be different when she is older . The placing in custody is therefore not necessary and burdensome, according to child A.


5.7
child B stated on the occasion of his conversation with the chairman that he is doing well at the moment. At school he is transferred to the fourth grade of HAVO. After obtaining his Havo diploma, he wants to move on to pre-university education. At the moment he does not want contact with the mother , but later that may be different. The supervision order is not necessary and in his many tensions caused, according to child B.


5.8
The court considers as follows. The following has emerged from the documents and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal. The parents separated in October 2015. Two years before, the mother had a cardiac arrest. She then had to rehabilitate for a long time, which meant she was less available for the children . Since the breakup of the parents , the children have stayed with the father and the children have no contact with the mother . In October 2017, the police filed a care report with Veilig Thuis , following two reports from girlfriends of childA towards the father in which they accused him of fornication towards them. Veilig Thuis Afterwards held a number of conversations with the father and the children . The report of 16 January 2018 shows that Safe Home considered parenting support to be necessary for the family at that time. According to Veilig Thuis , it was necessary to investigate to what extent the parents could make agreements with each other about the children , the contact between the mother and the children had to be restored and the children had toto be offered a safe educational climate, in which there was sufficient space for them to develop and in which they had their own network of family and friends. Because these objectives did not get off the ground sufficiently, the matter was subsequently transferred to the GI for preventive youth protection . From January 2018, the GI has attempted to establish contact with the father and children . Because this too did not get off the ground properly , the GI asked the council to start an investigation into the upbringing situation and safety of the children in thefather and the necessity of being placed under supervision . The children were placed under supervision on 5 October 2018 . The objectives of the supervision were, among other things, establishing assistive and coaching conversations with the children , mapping the well-being and safety of the children and establishing interaction between the mother and the children . Since the start of the supervision , it has proved difficult to provide assistanceto get going. In October and November 2018, a total of five conversations took place as part of the supervision order , three of which were between the children and the GI and two conversations between the father and the GI. In addition to these five interviews, the GI has invited the father to discuss the family plan, on which the father has indicated that he does not need it. Because the contact with the father was not established, the GI received a written instruction from the father on January 29, 2019given. This written instruction meant that the father had to appear on conversations with the family manager and had to cooperate in providing assistance . At the beginning of April 2019, the GI invited the father and the children for an interview to discuss the objectives of the supervision order. The father and the children responded negatively to this. Afterwards, the GI once again invited the children to an interview in which the mother would also be present. The children have this not responded.


5.9
The Court of Appeal considers that it follows from the foregoing that the assistance has not got off the ground since the start of the custody . As part of the supervision order , only five conversations took place between the GI and the father and children . Afterwards the GI tried to get in touch with the family. This has hardly succeeded. The GI gave the father a written instruction on January 29, 2019 . The father did not follow the written instruction . The GIsubsequently did not use any, or at least insufficient, means to persuade the father to cooperate in providing assistance , even though, pursuant to the provisions of Section 1: 263 (3) of the Dutch Civil Code, she has the option, for example, to ask the juvenile court to impose a sanction in the form of a to impose civil enforcement measures to ensure compliance with a written instruction . Nor was the GI able to make clear at the appeal hearing how it intends to achieve objectives within the framework of supervision , other than trying again with the father and childrenget into a conversation. All in all, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, even after giving the written instruction , the GI has taken insufficient concrete steps and has used resources to achieve the objectives. Therefore, in the opinion of the court is now no good reason more into care of the children , now under the supervision order no (further) results can be expected. In addition, the court based on the documents and the hearing on appeal notes that at present the circumstances reasonably well with the children . They both performed well at school last year, in that sense that childA has passed her final exams and that child B has passed to the fourth grade of HAVO. child A will start her further education at the end of August this year and child B intends to move on to VWO after completing his HAVO diploma. In addition, child B is playing football and, in the context of a recent trip to Suriname , the children have (had) contact with family members there from both mother and father side . At the hearing on appeal, the father stated, without being contradicted, that the children now both have an iPad, that child B has a telephone and that thechildren (may) use social media. Furthermore, it appears from the letter of 23 May 2019 from the Public Prosecution Service referred to above under 2.4 that the criminal case against the father has since been closed for lack of evidence. It has been found that supervision from the outset has caused a lot of pressure, stress and tension on the children and the family. Partly for this reason, the Court of Appeal does not exclude the possibility that an extension of the supervision order , partly in view of the attitude of the father towards the assistance , will have a counterproductive effect on the childrenand, on the contrary , contributes to a threat to the social-emotional development of the children , so that for that reason too, the ground for supervising the children has now disappeared. The Court finds it worrying that there has been no contact between the mother and the children for a long time. At present, however, the court sees, partly in view of the age of the children and the circumstance that they have repeatedly and consistently informed the various assistance organizations involved that they do not want to contact the mother at this time., no added value of being placed under supervision for them. It has not been shown that the supervision of the establishment of this contact has brought any improvement.

This means that, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the grounds for extending the supervision of the children are no longer present. The contested decision will therefore be annulled and the GI 's request for an extension of the supervision order will be rejected as of today.


5.10
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

in principal and incidental appeal:

endorses the decision, the appeal of which in so far as the children have been placed under the supervision of the GI;

annuls the decision, the appeal of which in so far as the children have been placed under the supervision of the GI from now on , and in so far as doing so again;

Rejects (as yet) the request of the GI for an extension of the supervision of the children , in so far as it concerns the period from 3 September 2019 to 5 April 2020.

This decision was made by AVT de Bie, MC Schenkeveld and JW Brunt, in the presence of the clerk, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 3 September 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3218