Content indication
Confirmation of guardianship order and rejection of the request to appoint another receiver . It has been established before the court that the person concerned is permanently not properly observing her interests and endangering her safety as a result of her physical and mental condition and a sufficient representation of the interests cannot be achieved with a more suitable and less far-reaching provision. so that the legal grounds for the undercurrence statement are met. It has not been made plausible or otherwise demonstrated that there is reason to appoint another receiver .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-07-16
Publication date
2019-07-30
Case number
200.243.421 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Department of civil law family and youth law team.

Case number: 200.243.421 / 01

Court case number:: 6974160 CB VERZ 18-69 jb

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 16 July 2019 concerning

person concerned,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the person concerned,

lawyer: RAM Schram in Haarlem, the Netherlands,

The following are considered as stakeholders in this case:

- the applicant at first instance and the respondent on appeal, niece, (hereinafter referred to as: the niece), lawyer: J. Nagtegaal in Breukelen;

- the Public Prosecution Service.

The following are designated as informers:

ZEKER Financiële Zorgverlening BV (hereinafter also referred to as: the liquidator ).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the subdistrict court judge in the Noord-Holland court, location Haarlem, (hereinafter: the subdistrict court judge) of 19 June 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The person concerned appealed against the aforementioned decision on 13 July 2018.


2.2
The niece submitted a statement of defense on September 21, 2018.


2.3
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a letter from the person concerned of 3 August 2018 with appendices, received on 6 August 2018;

- a letter from the niece of 5 March 2019 with appendices, received on 6 March 2019;

- a letter from the niece of 12 March 2019 with appendices, received on 13 March 2019;

- a fax message from the niece of 15 March 2019 with an attachment;

- a fax message from the niece of 18 March 2019 with an attachment.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 20 March 2019. The person concerned appeared in person, assisted by her lawyer. The niece also appeared, assisted by her lawyer who submitted a pleading. Mr. A has appeared on behalf of the bankruptcy trustee .


3 The facts
The person concerned was born in 1947. She is the daughter of X and Y, who have since died.

The only remaining relative of the person concerned is the niece. She is the daughter of Y's brother.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, at the request of the niece, the subdistrict court judge placed the person concerned under guardianship because of her physical or mental condition and appointed ZEKER Financiële Zorgverlening BV as guardian .


4.2
The person concerned claims that the contested decision should be annulled and the niece's request dismissed, with an order that the niece pay the costs of the proceedings at first instance and on appeal. At the hearing on appeal, the person concerned requested, in the alternative, the appointment of an administrator .


4.3
The niece requests primarily to declare the person concerned inadmissible in her request, at least to dismiss the appeal and to ratify the contested decision. The niece requests, in the alternative, to put the person concerned under administration and to establish a mentorship on behalf of the person concerned, with ZEKER Financiële Zorgverlening BV appointed as a mentor , or at least to take a protection measure that the court deems appropriate and thereby reward the administrator and / or mentor .


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
At the discretion of the Court of Appeal is whether the person concerned has been properly placed under guardianship or whether a less far-reaching measure is possible and whether the appointment of ZEKER Financiële Zorgverlening BV as trustee in that case should be maintained.


5.2
Pursuant to Section 1: 378 (1) of the Dutch Civil Code (hereinafter: the Dutch Civil Code) an adult may be placed under guardianship if he does not properly or temporarily perceive his interests or endangers his safety or that of others, as due:

a. his physical or mental condition, or

b. habit of alcohol or drug abuse,

and a sufficient representation of those interests cannot be achieved with a more appropriate and less far-reaching provision.


5.3
Under Article 1: 383 paragraph 1 DCC appoints the judge to set the receivership or as soon thereafter as a trustee . He makes sure that he is prepared and forms an opinion about the suitability of the person to be appointed.

On the basis of the second paragraph of that article, the judge follows the express preference of the person concerned when appointing the trustee , unless there are good grounds for opposing such appointment.


5.4
The person concerned cannot agree with the contested decision and argues that she should not have been placed under guardianship and that ZEKER Financiële zorgverlening BV should not have been appointed as guardian . In support of this view, it relies on the following.

The subdistrict court judge has wrongly considered that it is sufficiently plausible that the person concerned cannot properly observe her interests. The fact that she did not know that her informal caregiver , Mr B, had debited large amounts from her account does not mean that she would not properly perceive her interests. The person concerned explained in detail at the hearing at first instance why she sold her home for € 160,000. The property was sold in a residential state and there were defects and overdue maintenance. Moreover, it is the individual's own choice for her hometo sell with or without value. In addition, the person concerned has made additional agreements with Mr B on the basis of which she can continue to live in the house for free for the rest of her life , which right of residence, if she so wishes, may also be exchanged for another house on the street in residence, held by Mr B. The person concerned has already done this because the house is on the ground floor. The person concerned therefore believes that she has been able to make advantageous agreements for her. Furthermore, now that she lives in the home in the place of residence, it is also not illogical that they cost for the maintenance of that homemakes. She instructed Mr B to withdraw money for her so that she could redecorate the house .

What the subdistrict court judge has considered with regard to the odor nuisance reported by neighbors is incorrect. The person concerned has had alcohol problems in the past, but they have not been discussed since 2014. In 2017, the person concerned was physically unable to clean her home due to her mobility, but that was a snapshot of more than a year ago. The home care provider did not come at the time and no one else came to help the person involved, so that the dog's stools on the upper floor were not cleaned up. Moreover, this does not say anything about the ability of the person concerned to manage its finances and therefore cannot lead to an order of guardianship.

Above all, the bankruptcy trustee cannot be considered capable of looking after the financial interests of the person concerned now that the bankruptcy trustee's business has been making a loss for several years and therefore does not have a sound financial management. Moreover, the liquidator only visited twice in the past nine months. The contested decision must therefore be annulled and the claim for injunction must be rejected, according to the person concerned.


5.5
The niece defends itself as follows.

Concerns about Mr B's involvement with the person concerned were the reason for submitting the request for a custody order. He is also very closely involved in the present proceedings. Mr B, and not the person concerned, therefore appears to be in charge in the present proceedings. The lawyer of the person concerned stated at the hearing at first instance that he had known Mr B for years. In addition, the lawyer assists Mr B in the proceedings of the liquidator against Mr B concerning the disappeared money of the person concerned. The arguments of the lawyer are therefore only in the interest of Mr B. For example, the lawyer of the person concerned shifts hard medical facts about the very serious onesaside cognitive damage that is involved in the person concerned in the present proceedings. It is precisely in the interest of the person concerned that her disorders and limitations are recognized and that her help and protection are offered. With the present proceedings, Mr B is trying to get the funds from the person concerned. In the contested decision, therefore, the subdistrict court judge was right to rely on the reports and statements from the psychiatrist and the Social Welfare Team submitted by the niece at first instance and considered that the person concerned could not properly perceive her interests because of physical or mental limitations. That's the psychiatrist 's reportdates from 2014 does not affect its accuracy, as the conclusions of the report are the result of a long-term recording and assessment and the limitations of the person concerned are permanent. Furthermore, it has been found that the person concerned has repeatedly neglected himself and, in 2014, once again gave the wrong person her confidence. She currently lives in an adjoining room in the home of Mr B and his husband. The person concerned has said to the bankruptcy trustee that she pays € 1,200 per month in rent, while in this case she claims that she can rent from Mr B for free for the rest of her life. When the bankruptcy trustee visits the person concerned, Mr B follows him closely. Furthermore, the entire site is around theproperty surrounded by gates and surveillance cameras. In this way, Mr B protects the person concerned from the outside world.

The current bankruptcy trustee prevents abuse of the data subject and her goods and money being squandered. Receiving an injunction is therefore necessary, since other protection measures do not offer sufficient protection , according to the niece.


5.6
The bankruptcy trustee stated the following at the hearing on appeal.

The court and various accountants test the liquidator annually and have again issued the necessary certificates this year.

On 19 June 2018, just before the person concerned was actually placed under guardianship , Mr B withdrew more than € 30,000 from the account of the person concerned. Since then, the person concerned has been living on this amount, of which, according to Mr B, only € 6,000 is left. The bankruptcy trustee also has a debit card from the account, into which the living allowance of the person concerned is deposited, sent to her by post. Probably Mr B intercepted this, now that the person concerned says that he did not receive it.

Due to the complexity of this case , Mr A has in particular been responsible for the financial part of the underwriting statement and has therefore only visited twice. His colleague Mrs. C focuses on the personal well-being of the person concerned and she has since visited the person concerned several times. She also has contact with the doctor of the person concerned, according to the curator .


5.7
The Court of Appeal considered that when assessing whether the measure of guardianship is justified, the picture and medical facts from previous years are also important in this case.

In January 2014, the person concerned was hypothermized by the GGD and found to be seriously neglected in her home . At that time, Mr D lived in her house without a lease agreement. He was in possession of the bank card of the person concerned and, like the person concerned, alcohol dependent. The person concerned was subsequently admitted to the Kennemergasthuis from 28 January 2014 to 25 February 2014, after which she stayed in the Sloterhof rehabilitation center in Haarlem until the end of August 2014. For cognitive diagnostics, she was referred to Juliana-Oord by the Brijder addiction care. There the diagnostics of the person concerned took place under the leadership of a psychiatristI. van der Schaaf (hereinafter: the psychiatrist ). The psychiatrist 's report shows that the person concerned is a vulnerable elderly lady with a permanent mental disorder and / or limitations. She has been dependent on alcohol addiction for many years as a result of which she has suffered serious permanent cognitive damage. The person involved has various cognitive impairments, namely persistent amnestic alcoholic disorder (Korsakov), NAO cognitive impairment and Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus, in Dutch Hydrocephalus, formation of a water head due to a disturbed circulation of the brain and spinal fluid. These disorders are accompanied by serious onescognitive impairments. It follows from the report that the person concerned has no insight into illness and is unable to take care of himself. It was therefore decided not to treat the person concerned because the chance of improvement is very small. The Juliana-Oord has therefore advised that the person concerned should live in a Korsakov ward of a nursing home or a Korsakov RIBW. The Care Indication Center (CIZ) issued an indication decision in its letter of 18 September 2014 up to and including 15 September 2029 so that the person concerned will receive the following care seven days a week: accommodation, supervision including daily activities, personal care, nursing and treatment because she needs a protected living environment with very intensive care with an emphasis onguidance . All the more so now that she has non-congenital brain damage in addition to her higher age.

Despite the aforementioned indication decision, the person concerned returned to live in her own home after the admission to Juliana-Oord and she took a dog into her home. In August 2017, the GGD was again involved due to odor nuisance and the home of the person concerned and they were found to be seriously neglected. Hereby the cleaning company of Mr B was called in by the GGD to clean the house once. He has since remained involved with the person concerned and has set himself up with his spouse as the person's caregiver . The person concerned who was already avoiding care at that time has since refused all care because they are providing informal careof Mr. B and his spouse. She also became suspicious of the employees of the Social Neighborhood Team. As a result of this and the suspected increased alcohol consumption of the person concerned, the Social Neighborhood Team reported on 25 May 2018 the situation with the niece of the person concerned, Veilig Thuis and the Stichting Veilig Ouder aging.


5.8
It is clear that the person involved has a serious reversible cognitive impairment and that she has therefore been unable to protect her own interests sufficiently . She also seems to be shielded from people who ask questions about her choices. At the hearing, the person concerned argued that she could make her own choices and that she greatly appreciated the commitment of Mr B and his wife. However, based on the facts and circumstances put forward, the Court of Appeal finds that there are serious doubts about whether these informal carers actually represent the interests of the person concerned. The person concerned does not realize how her financial situation has changed to her disadvantage. After the saleof her old home no verifiable agreement has been reached regarding her accommodation. The person concerned is in no way more open to assistance and support other than that of Mr B. This even goes so far that it allows the same lawyer to defend her interests in these proceedings as the one who assists Mr. B in the civil proceedings of the liquidator . That the confidence of the person concerned in Mr B entails risks, as is apparent from the findings of the liquidator .

Since the contested decision, the bankruptcy trustee has found that Mr B is in possession of the debit card of the person concerned and that Mr B had the opportunity to withdraw funds in the period from October 2017 to 30 June 2018. The bankruptcy trustee has meanwhile filed a report against Mr B on behalf of the person concerned on 10 July 2018 against Mr B. From the course of the person's accounts, the liquidator has concluded that at least € 133,846 was withdrawn from the account. According to the bankruptcy trustee , the assets of the person concerned have been reduced to virtually zero. The amount from the proceeds of the saleof the person's former owner-occupied home has also disappeared. Within the framework of this report, the person concerned was heard as a witness by the police. At the hearing at first instance and during the interrogation of the police, the person concerned stated that he did not have internet banking and that Mr B had not given permission to request internet banking on her behalf. She does say that she has given permission to Mr B to carry out debit card transactions, but her statements show that she has no knowledge of the amount of the debited amounts.

The sale of the former home also raises major questions when it comes to the judgment of the person concerned. They have the property sold to Mr. B for € 160.000, - while the WOZ value on January 1, 2017 € 339.000, - stood and appraiser commissioned by the liquidator , the house at € 250,000, on February 27, 2018 - has appraised , taking into account the poor state of maintenance of the property . The person in question knew very little or nothing about the sale of her home to the police, the court and to employees of the Social Neighborhood Team . She was convinced that she was with thesale of her home acquired ownership of a new home , at least that she could spend the rest of her life for free in another home owned by Mr. B. This has not been recorded in writing and at the start of the undercurrence statement it appeared from statements by the person concerned that she did indeed pay rent of € 1,200 (including) per month. Meanwhile, she lives not in an extension of the home of Mr. B. The person concerned has financed the renovation of this extension himself.


5.9
In view of the foregoing, it has been established before the Court that the person concerned does not permanently perceive her interests properly and endangers her safety as a result of her physical and mental condition and does not adequately represent those interests with a more appropriate and less far-reaching provision can be made, so that the legal grounds for placing an order in writing are met.

The Court of Appeal does not consider a less far-reaching measure to be appropriate given the diagnosis of the person concerned and her inability to protect himself from interference from third parties. Insofar as the person concerned has requested at the hearing on appeal to pronounce an administration, the court will therefore reject this request. The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.


5.10
Insofar as the person concerned intended to request the appointment of another liquidator , the court will also reject this request now that it has not been made plausible or it has otherwise been shown that there is reason to do so. The bankruptcy trustee is tested annually by the court and accountants; they have provided the certificates again this year so that there are no formal objections to the current bankruptcy trustee . The execution of the curatorial order also showed that the liquidator acted adequately and in the interest of the person concerned by appointing a colleague of him as a mentor for personal matters.for the person concerned. Given the circumstances in which the person concerned is in, the Court of Appeal considers this to be in its interest.


5.11
In view of the above-mentioned outcome, there is no need to order the cousin requested by the person concerned to pay the costs of the proceedings at both instances. This request from the person concerned will be rejected. The court will compensate the costs in the manner to be reported.


5.12
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

endorses the decision of the subdistrict court judge in the court of Noord-Holland, location Haarlem, of 19 June 2018, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court;

instructs the Registrar to send a copy of this decision to the Noord-Holland District Court, location Haarlem, in accordance with Article 1: 391 of the Dutch Civil Code, in connection with the entry in the Central Bankruptcy and Government Register ;

compensates the costs of proceedings in such a way that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by AR Sturhoofd, GW Brands-Bottema and JW van Zaane, in the presence of WJ Boon, as clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on 16 July 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 2709