Content indication
Request by the mother on appeal to reject the request for supervision of the council , or to grant it for a period of six months, rejected.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-08-22
Publication date
2019-08-26
Case number
200,259,344
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.259.344

(case number court of Gelderland 347911)

decision of 22 August 2019

on

applicant,

residing at domicile, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: AWM Mans in Roermond,

and

child protection council ,

established in Arnhem,

respondent on appeal,

to be called: the council .

The following are considered as other interested parties:

interested party,

living at home,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: previously C. Simmelink in Maarssen, now without lawyer.

and

the certified institution Stichting Jeugdbescherming Gelderland,

established in Nijmegen,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the Gelderland District Court, Arnhem, of 25 February 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the letter of appeal, received on 14 May 2019;

- the defense of the council ;

- a journal report from mr. Simmelink of 28 May 2019 with a withdrawal;

- the letter from the GI of 4 June 2019.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 18 July 2019. The mother appeared in person, assisted by her lawyer. A representative of the Child Protection Board has appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board ) . The father appeared in person. Representative GI , youth protector , appeared on behalf of the GI .


3 The facts

3.1
The mother and the father are the parents of a child who was born at the place of birth on the date of birth.

They are jointly responsible for custody of a child . child lives with the mother .


3.2
The father also has a daughter: a stakeholder, born on the date of birth at the place of birth.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision - declared enforceable in stock - the juvenile court child placed the child under the supervision of the GI at the request of the council from 25 February 2019 to 25 February 2020.


4.2
The mother appealed against the contested decision with three complaints. These complaints are intended to submit the full appeal to the court of appeal. The mother requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision and to re-order it, to determine that no authorization is granted for the supervision , or that an authorization is granted for a period of six months.


4.3
The council defends and requests the court to ratify the contested decision, including the enforceability in stock.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The court may a 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW): Pursuant to Article 1 minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
The court considers it likely that child in the absence of the requested supervision order will grow so that in its development seriously being threatened and the care associated with the removal of these threats is essential for the minor or the parents by the (n) is not or insufficiently accepted. In addition, the expectation is justified that the parents are capable within a child's mind and its developmentterm to be considered acceptable, to bear the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code. To this end, the court considers the following.


5.3
It has been found that a child has not seen his father for more than two years and becomes emotional when talking about his father . He has a negative father image . During the examination of the council , the child showed stress complaints for a number of weeks . child is a sensitive, smart child with ADHD and asthma issues. The mother has so far sought help for a child when needed. Although child is with the mother right nowdevelops , the court finds it very worrying that the child has a negative father image . Such a negative father image can have far-reaching consequences in the long term. There is therefore now a threatened development . It is very good that the mother, in consultation with the school, has used play therapy for a child and that the play therapist still acts as a kind of counselor for a child , but the therapy has not brought about a sufficient change in the (negative) father image of the child . That the mother states that the game therapist does itrestoring contact between a child and his father in the future could assist when a child is up to it, the court would not be sufficient. If no concrete further steps are taken now, the situation is too free of obligations and an impasse is likely to arise. It is not to be expected that the child will indicate that he or she is ready to contact his father . Although the mother does not stop contact, there is insufficient incentive at that time. It is very important for a child to have his negative father imageand, in that context, he must be given the opportunity to have new positive experiences with his father .

The Court of Appeal deduces from the documents and the oral hearing on appeal that there are several reasons why the use of a youth protector from the GI is necessary. It is important that contact recovery is achieved carefully, carefully and if necessary under supervision . The speed and possibilities must be properly adjusted to the child , because he is being questioned quickly. The parents cannot communicate with each other sufficiently and cannot come to joint decisions for the approach to contact recovery . The court saw that the father during the oral hearingthe severity of the situation may be somewhat underestimated. That the detention of the father has had a major impact on child is not the only thing that plays a role in the negative father image of child . The father must also take into account that child at the council told him the conversation with the father in the period before he was detained was not always pleasant. The trust of the child (and also of the mother ) in the father must be regained. All this together makes the contract for theparents to change the father image in a child and to restore contact within the possibilities of a child in a sustainable way, is only a difficult task for them. Even if they use support on a voluntary basis, this is not feasible, according to the court. Moreover, new negative experiences must prevent the situation from deteriorating. A young guard is well equipped to a process for restoring contact to guide and interests of children while always prioritize.

In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, supervision is therefore necessary. The fact that the youth protector only actually started work recently and did not become acquainted with the parents and child until many months after the contested decision does not affect the decision of the court and the need for a decision. child protection measure .

Finally, the Court of Appeal considered that there was no reason to reduce the duration of the supervision order, because it is expected that the process of contact recovery will take a considerable period, at least longer than six months.


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the grievances of the mother fail . The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the juvenile court in the Gelderland court, Arnhem court, of 25 February 2019;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. R. Feunekes, JH Lieber and CM Schönhagen, assisted by the registrar, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar on August 22, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 6798