Content indication
Suspension request , provisional provisions , special liquidator . Request from GI to order a forensic examination by way of preliminary injunction dismissed. 223 Rv
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-18
Publication date
2019-09-10
Case number
200.253.407 / 02
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case numbers:

200.253.407 / 02 (suspension),

200.253.407 / 03 (provisional provision for mother's request ),

200.253.407 / 04 (provisional provision request GI) and

200,253,474 (appointment of special liquidator )

(Gelderland court case number: 344804)

order of 18 April 2019 on the requests for provisional relief , the request for suspension and the request for appointment of a guardian ad litem

on

applicant,

living at home,

applicant, hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

the defendant in the case with number 200.253.407 / 04

lawyer: HCD Bos in Arnhem, the Netherlands,

and

child protection council ,

established in Arnhem,

to be referred to as: the council ,

and

the certified institution

Youth Protection Foundation Gelderland,

established in Arnhem,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI,

and

defendant,

living at home,

defendant, hereinafter referred to as: the father ,

lawyer: MLJ Wekking in Apeldoorn.


1 The main proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the main proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Gelderland District Court, Zutphen, sitting on 27 November 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number, hereinafter also referred to as 'the contested decision'.


2 The procedure

2.1
The course of all procedures together appears from:

the petition (appeal, suspension , provisional provision and special liquidator ) of the mother with productions 1 up to and including 66, received on January 25, 2019;
the defense of the council , received on 13 February 2019;
the statement of defense of the GI, also containing an independent request to make a provisional provision , received on 22 February 2019;
a statement of defense from the father against the mother 's request for provisional relief , the suspension and in the main appeal with exhibits 1 to 14, received on 5 March 2019;
a statement of opposition from the father against the mother 's request for appointment of a guardian ad litem with production 1, received on 6 March 2019;
a statement of defense from the father against the GI 's request for provisional measures , received on March 18, 2019;
a journal report from mr. Bos from 18 March 2019 with productions 67 to 74;
a journal report from mr. Wekking of 18 March 2019 with productions 15 to 21, and
a statement of defense from the mother against the GI 's request for provisional measures , received on 19 March 2019.

2.2
The oral hearing took place on 28 March 2019. The mother and father appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. Representative Council for Child Protection also appeared on behalf of the Council and representative GI , youth protector , on behalf of the GI.


2.3
The mother argues that the statement of defense from the GI, also containing an independent request for provisional relief , was submitted too late. The time limit for the defense extended to 21 February 2019 and the defense was received on 22 February 2019. Therefore, the defense must be disregarded and the GI is inadmissible in the application for a provisional measure .

In connection with the fact that in these proceedings it is also possible to put an oral defense at the hearing, the court of appeal ignores this statement of the mother . The statement of defense, also containing an independent request to make a provisional provision , is regarded as a procedural document.


2.4
Article 1.4.4 of the Procedural Procedure for Petition Procedures for Family Affairs Courts provides:

“An interested party must submit the documents on which he wishes to rely as soon as possible. At the latest on the tenth calendar day prior to the oral hearing, documents may still be submitted, provided that they are sent in five copies and with a copy to every other interested party. Documents that are submitted afterwards and documents that have emerged during the oral hearing that have not been received by every other interested party and against submission for which an objection has been made are ignored, unless the court decides otherwise. Extensive documents that are submitted without necessity on or just before the tenth calendar day prior to the oral hearing can be disregarded as contrary to the proper procedural order. "


2.5
At the oral hearing, Mr Wekking objected to the submission of a journal report dated 22 March 2019 from Mr Bos with productions 76 to 79. She stated that it concerned a large number of documents, which could have been produced earlier and that she was unable to prepare sufficiently. Mr. Bos then stated that, for the most part, she only had the documents at her disposal after 18 March 2019 and that the documents were not difficult to fathom.

The court - after a suspension of the hearing - based on the contents of the aforementioned Article 1.4.4 Process Rules provides that the news report of March 22, 2019 with exhibits 76 to 79 will be disregarded because only submitting those documents on the aforementioned date is contrary to the proper procedural order. The Court of Appeal added that, to the extent that Mr. Bos wishes to appeal to these documents, she can put forward the content thereof during her speaking time during the oral hearing.


2.6
The juvenile protector objected to the recording and elaboration of a conversation conducted by the mother in the living room with the juvenile on 14 February 2019 by the mother as production 70c. She was not aware of the fact that the conversation at the mother was admitted. Part of recording a confidential conversation with her name child 1 when the other people in the house of the mother , including also the mother had left the room.

The mother 's lawyer explained that the mother was forced to record the interview because the youth protector refused to confirm certain matters discussed. She adds that the father has also recorded conversations and that he is not being called to account.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that production 70c must be disregarded. In view of the provisions of article 139a (criminalizing eavesdropping) and 139e under 3 (criminalizing making the recording secretly made available to others) of the Criminal Code , this annex contains unlawfully obtained evidence and it follows from those articles that the mother and the lawyer have acted in violation of the law by making this admission and presenting it.


3 The facts

3.1
The mother and father are the parents of:

- name of child 1 (hereinafter referred to as: name of child 1), born on the date of birth at the place of birth, and

- name of child 2 (hereinafter referred to as: name of child 2), born on date of birth at place of birth.

together to be called: the children . The children were born during the parents' wedding .

After their divorce , the parents were jointly charged with custody of the children . The children continued to live with the mother after the divorce .


3.2
The preliminary relief judge in the court of Gelderland, court of Zutphen, has suspended the care scheme , as agreed in the parenting plan of September 25, 2016, or the amended care scheme of December 30, 2016, and - in summary - a provisional ruling distribution of care determined before the summer holidays 2018, as well as for the period after the summer holidays stipulated that the assistance provided within the context of the urge trajectory will further determine the contact between the father and the children . The treatment of the distribution of care has been reserved and the councilhas requested an investigation to be set and for the court to advise on the allocation of care and, if necessary, this study extend to a child protection investigation .

By judgment of 28 September 2018, the preliminary relief judge lifted the suspension of the care arrangement and ordered the woman to comply with the parenting plan belonging to the decision of the Limburg District Court of 23 November 2016 and the parties agreed further by e-mail of 30 December 2016 care arrangement .


3.3
By order of the court of Gelderland, court of Zutphen, of October 8, 2018, the juvenile court has provisionally placed the children under supervision until January 8, 2019, an authorization for placement of the children with the father with authority granted for four weeks and the decision for the rest arrested.

By order of 17 October 2018, the juvenile court granted authorization for placement of the children with the father with custody until 8 January 2019.


3.4
On October 29, 2018, the council issued a report and concluded therein that supervision and placement of the children in custody are necessary.


3.5
In the order of 27 November 2018, the juvenile court judge placed the children under the supervision of the GI from 27 November 2018 to 27 November 2019 at the request of the council and granted authorization for placement of the children with the father from 27 November 2018 to 27 November 2019.

The mother lodged an appeal against this decision with the aforementioned notice of appeal on January 25, 2019.


4 The assessment of the request
suspension (200,253,407 / 2)


4.1
The next item is the mother 's request that the court should, by order, as far as possible be enforceable in stock, suspend the declaration of enforceability of the contested decision with regard to the supervision and placement of the children with the father with custody of the duration of the custody , namely until 27 November 2019, this during the period that the court has not yet made a decision on the appeal lodged by the mother .


4.2
The appeal will suspend operation, unless the order has been declared enforceable. Pursuant to the second sentence of Article 360 ​​(2) of the Code of Civil Procedure, the higher court can still suspend the operation if an appeal has been lodged against a decision that has been declared enforceable in stock.


4.3
The Court of Appeal sets the following first with reference to HR 20 March 2015, ECLI: NL: HR: 2015: 688 and HR 30 May 2008, ECLI: NL: HR: 2008: BC5012 .

i) The applicant must have an interest in the suspension of the implementation of the decision which he has requested .
(ii) When assessing a request for suspension of the operation of a decision, the interests of the parties must be weighed in the light of the circumstances of the case. In doing so, it must be ascertained whether, on the basis of those circumstances, the interest of the applicant in maintaining the existing situation until the appeal has been decided, outweighs the interest of his counterparty in the (continuation of) implementation of the decision. If the decision concerns the conviction to pay a sum of money, the interest of the creditor in the declaration of enforceability is in principle given.
(iii) The balance of interests must be based on the contested decision and on the underlying findings and judgments, and the chance of the appeal being successful is, in principle, not taken into account.
iv) If the court of first instance has given a reasoned decision about the enforceable declaration in stock, the applicant who wishes to change this decision will have to base his request on a manifest legal or factual error in the contested decision or facts and facts. circumstances that could not be taken into account in that decision because they did not occur until after the decision, and which can justify deviating from that earlier decision.
v) If the court of first instance did not give a reasoned decision on the request for a declaration of enforceability in stock, the requirement stated above under (iv) does not apply and a decision must be taken with due observance of the above mentioned under (i) to (iii) .
This does not alter the fact that even then the applicant who wishes to change the decision on the enforceable declaration of stock can base his request on a manifest legal or factual error in the contested decision or facts and circumstances that could not be taken into account in that decision be taken because they did not occur until after the decision and that can justify deviating from that earlier decision.


4.4
The juvenile court judge did not give reasons for the decision regarding the enforceable declaration in stock. The Court of Appeal will still make a weighing of interests as referred to above (section 4.3 i-iii). The juvenile court judge has ruled that placement in the home is necessary in the interests of the children . In weighing up its interests, the Court of Appeal bases itself on this judgment of the juvenile court judge and does not consider the chance of the appeal being successful.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that , in view of the above-mentioned judgment of the juvenile court judge, the interests of the children in the continued execution of the custody and placement in the home outweigh the interests of the mother in suspending them.

The mother 's argument that the children do not receive proper care and upbringing from the father is contradicted by the other stakeholders. According to the GI and the father, the children are currently functioning reasonably well under circumstances.

The youth protector has confirmed that the name child 1 and the name child 2 indicate that they would like to live with their mother again. The council , however, has been reported and at the hearing again stressed that the mother of the children are still burdened by the father in front of the children to disqualify . The mother lacks any self-reflection on this point. As a result, the children get stuck between the parents .

The youth protector has endorsed this position of the council and has stated that she observes that the father takes a more neutral approach to the children and gives the children more opportunity to express themselves freely. With the father there is also emotional space for more contact between the mother and the children than the contact that is currently taking place, but the GI considers that due to the mother 's attitude at the moment it is too stressful for the children .

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the statements of the council and the GI are substantiated with so many examples that it is plausible that the interests of the children in maintaining the existing situation currently weigh more heavily. That is why the court of appeal will reject the mother 's request for suspension of the operation of the decision regarding supervision and removal from the hospital .

provisional provision requested by the mother (200.253.407 / 03)


4.5
Furthermore, the mother 's request is that the court should, as far as practicable in stock, determine as a provisional provision that the children return to the mother for the duration of the appeal proceedings at this court, or in the event of rejection of this request to stipulate that the children stay with the mother for at least one night a week for the duration of the procedure and that the care scheme is extended further.


4.6
Pursuant to Article 223, paragraph 1, of the Code of Civil Procedure, each party may claim that the court will make provisional relief for the duration of the dispute during proceedings pending. Paragraph 2 of this article states that the claim must be related to the main claim. Since the main proceedings are pending between the parties to this court and that connection exists, the mother is admissible in her request for the adoption of a provisional provision .


4.7
The Court of Appeal first of all states that a provisional provision is by its nature a temporary decision that applies for the duration of the proceedings. It is required that the party requesting the provisional provision must have a sufficient (urgent) interest in such a request and that he cannot be expected to await the outcome of the case.


4.8
The Court of Appeal, after its own investigation , supports the considerations of the juvenile judge in the contested decision and makes it his own. It has already been held that the Board and the GI have sufficient reasons argued that the father 's ability for kids to make, and that the mother of the children burdened by the conflict between the parents . The (distribution of) care and upbringing of the children is part of that struggle. If the children were allowed to return to the mother at this timechances are that the mother will try to completely put the father out of play in the care and upbringing of the children . The Council has reported that there are divorce problems in which the mother expresses a very negative opinion of the father at various authorities . The father is calm and tries to avoid conflicts , according to the council .

A stay with him is less harmful to the children , because the father is currently better able to give the mother a role in the children 's lives than the other way around. That the children are sad because they no longer live with their mother and miss her does not alter this conclusion. The willingness of the mother to resume the 'All-in-the-Family' support trajectory and to follow the DEES module at Pactum together with the father does not lead to a different conclusion.


4.9
Regarding the extension of the care scheme , the court considers that the GI and the father have sufficiently described in detail that the mother is still making statements that negatively influence the attitude of the children towards their father . According to the youth protector , an extension of the contact between the mother and the children is currently not in the interest of the children .

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, in view of the expertise available at the GI , the interpretation of the contact between the mother and name of child 1 and name of child 2 should at the moment be left to the youth protector , in consultation with the behavioral expert.


4.10
On the basis of the above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the provision requested by the mother must be rejected.

appointment of a special liquidator (200,253,474)


4.11
The court of appeal has also been submitted for assessment to the mother 's request that the court should, insofar as practicable in stock, appoint a guardian ad litem (the mother mentions curator's name ) and give this instruction to give the children a voice.


4.12
According to Article 1: 250 of the Civil Code (BW), the court may appoint a guardian ad litem if it deems this necessary in the interests of the minor because of a conflict between the interests of the minor and those of the parent charged with custody (s) or guardian (s); according to the legal history, this also includes the case that there is a material conflict between the parent (s) or guardian (s) and the minor with regard to their care and upbringing (HR 4 February 2005, HR: 2005: AR4850). In answering the question whether such an appointment is appropriate, it will be in the best interests of the minorform the first consideration for the court. The appointment of a guardian ad litem should not, however, take place with the general aim of protecting the minor 's interests . Furthermore, it should be noted that when answering the question whether the appointment of a special liquidator is necessary, the court has a large degree of discretion (HR 23 November 2013, HR: 2013: AR4850).


4.13
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, there is a conflict between the parents in the present case . In connection with this struggle, the juvenile court judge issued a custodial order and granted authorization for placement with the father with custody . It is the task of the youth protector appointed by the GI to protect the interests of the children and to take decisions in the event of conflicts of interest between the children and the parents . In the meantime, there has also been a conflict between the motherand the youth protector about what should be done in the interests of the children , but in the opinion of the court that is no reason for appointing a special guardian .

It does not automatically follow from the circumstances that the conflict referred to in Article 1: 250 of the Civil Code exists between the interests of the parents charged with custody or one of them with those of the children required to appoint a special child. the bankruptcy trustee . The mother has not sufficiently substantiated her request on this point. Its propositions that the children must have an independent voice, that there is a tunnel vision at the council and the GI and that the interests of the children with the protective measuresinsufficiently guaranteed, the court passes. It is known to the youth protector and also to the father that the children want to be with their mother more often and the mother 's lawyer has read the contents of a letter written by child's name 1 during the oral treatment. The children 's wish is known; their voice has sounded, and the parents and the professionals involved have heard that voice and the children 's wishes , but there is a difference of opinion between them as to whether the children 's wishes should be met.

It cannot be excluded that a guardian ad litem will cause even more uncertainty and an additional burden on the already complicated situation, especially since it can be concluded from the course of events that both parents do not shy away from the expertise of various to question the helpers / authorities and to fight with them.

Based on the above, the court of appeal will reject the mother 's request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem.

provisional provision requested by the GI (200.253.407 / 4)


4.14
Finally, in dispute, the request of the GI is that the court, enforceable in stock, on the basis of Article 223 of the Code of Civil Procedure, will determine that before the substance of the case is dealt with, a forensic investigation is ordered, answering at least the following research questions:

How does the mother function ? How can her personality be described? Are there indications of personality issues? What are the pedagogical skills of the mother ? How do these outcomes relate to the individual affective, pedagogical and upbringing needs of child 1 and child 2?
How does the father function ? How can his personality be described? Are there indications of personality issues? What are the pedagogical skills of the father ? How do these outcomes relate to the individual affective, pedagogical and upbringing needs of child 1 and child 2?
What is the interaction between child 1 and child 2 and both parents , both separately and together?
What is the influence of each parent 's partner on child 1 and child 2?
What are the (contra) indications for placement with the mother or father ? To what extent is placement with the mother or father deemed to be in the interest of child 1 and child 2?
How can the parents individually and collectively shape the access arrangement with the name of child 1 and name of child 2?
If out-of- home placement is advised, how can the contact between the name of child 1, name of child 2 and the parents be organized?
To what extent are there based on interaction observation or other information obtained from the research questions emerged about the development of name child 1 and name child 2 showing additional psychodiagnostic investigation into the children need?

4.15
The GI explained that it started in the situation of out-of- home placement . According to the behavioral expert, decision diagnostics are urgently needed to determine the perspective of the children . Research is needed into the personality of each of the parents and the concerns that their personal condition entails for the development of the children , into the parenting skills of the parents and whether the parents can match the children 's development needs , into the interaction between the children. childrenand each of the parents , and the influence of the bond between the children and their stepparents .


4.16
Both parents defend this request.

The father does not expect a study to provide a solution because the mother will not accept the results if they are not favorable to her. His interaction with the children and also with his partner has already been observed by the council . A new (long-term) process will also be a burden on the children . There is a considerable waiting time and the investigation has a considerable lead time. After all, he is not prepared to pay (half of) the costs.

The mother states that the MINIplus study has already shown that she is not a psychiatric disorder, personality disorder or trauma, but that the GI ignores that. Dimence's GZ psychologist does not agree with the interpretation of the GI. Extensive research as proposed by the GI involves high costs. She is unable to pay those costs and such an investigation will delay, while still having very limited contact with the children . Other research can also be conducted, for example by psychiatric psychologists.


4.17
As has already been considered above, pursuant to Article 223 DCCP, any party may, during the proceedings before it, claim that the court will make provisional relief for the duration of the dispute, provided that the claim has sufficient coherence with the main claim. It must be a temporary decision that applies for the duration of the proceedings and there must be a sufficient (urgent) interest in the sense that it cannot be expected that the outcome of the case will be awaited.

The Court of Appeal finds that the investigation that the GI wishes to do concerns the interpretation of the parenthood of both parents and does not concern the present requests. For that reason alone, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the GI 's request must be rejected.


5 The conclusion
The court will reject all the mother 's requests and the GI 's request .


6 The decision
The court:

in Case 200.253.407 / 02 (suspension):

Rejects the mother 's request for suspension of operation of the decision of 27 November 2018 on supervision and removal from the hospital ;

200.253.407 / 03 (provisional provision, mother's request ):

Rejects the mother 's request to determine, on a provisional basis, that the children return to her for the duration of the appeal proceedings at this court, or, on rejection thereof, to determine that the children are at least for the duration of the proceedings one night a week with her stays and the care scheme is further expanded;

200,253,474 (appointment of special liquidator ):

Rejects the mother 's request for the appointment of a guardian ad litem ;

200.253.407 / 04 (provisional provision, request of the GI):

Rejects the GI 's request for a forensic investigation .

This decision was made by mrs. A. Smeeing-van Hees, JH Lieber and JB de Groot, assisted by the clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 18 April 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 3475