Content indication
Joint authority of parents is terminated on the basis of Article 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code. The serious and persistent divorce struggle between the parents , the criminal proceedings of the mother and the disturbed relationships make it necessary for the father only to be given custody and no contact with the mother to be established.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-21
Publication date
2019-11-26
Case number
200.255.326 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN

location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court of appeal 200.255.326 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 18/168345 / FA RK 16-1717)

decision of 21 November 2019

on

applicant,

electing domicile in A, the applicant,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: PB Rietberg in Groningen, the Netherlands,
and

defendant,

residing in B,

defendant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: AAM Kroon-Jongbloed in Groningen.

1. The proceedings at first instance / the proceedings before the court in the first instance
1.1 For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the District Court of Noord-Nederland, location Groningen, of 4 December 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number (hereinafter: the contested decision).
1.2 In the contested decision, the court decided as listed below under 3.1.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with productions 1 to 19, received on 27 February 2019;

- the defense with productions 20 to 45; - a letter from mr. Kroon-Jongbloed of 3 September 2019 with a fax / letter from mr. Kroon-Jongbloed of 29 August 2019 with productions 19 to 21; - a journal report from mr. Rietberg of 3 September 2019 with productions 46 and 47;

- a letter from C dated 4 September 2019 (introduction to Kroon-Jongbloed mr.).
2.2
The minor the minor , born in 2005 (hereinafter: the minor ), has been given the opportunity by the court to give her opinion on the case. She has written a letter to the Court of Appeal and was heard by a supervisory director prior to the oral hearing of the case.
2.3
The oral hearing took place on 11 September 2019, during which the parties and their lawyers appeared and, on behalf of the Child Protection Board , Mr D. The lawyers of the parties have submitted pleadings.


3 The dispute

3.1
The contested decision, inter alia, terminated the joint authority of the parties over the minor and stipulated that from now on the authority over the minor only belonged to the father . In addition, it has been stipulated that there is no longer an access arrangement of a compulsory nature between the minor and the mother, with a change in the obligations applicable up to that point.
3.2
The mother requests the court to determine that joint custody is maintained, or to determine, on the basis of expert research by NIFP, where the minor will have her principal residence and whether or not an access arrangement can take place, or such a decision to take if the court considers correct.
3.3
The father requests the court to declare the mother inadmissible or to reject her requests on appeal and to order her to pay the judicial and extrajudicial costs of the proceedings.


4 The established facts

4.1
In its assessment of the dispute, the Court of Appeal starts from the facts established by the court in the contested decision under the heading The facts because they were not disputed. The Court of Appeal added that the under-supervision of the minor was no longer extended after 4 October 2018.


5 The reasons for the decision
Introductory consideration 5.1 In all decisions about children , the best interests of the child must be the first consideration. This is, among other things, prescribed in Article 3 paragraph 1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child . in the opinion of the court, the minor at the moment mainly needs the parents to bury their hatchet instead of continuing to bombard each other with blame, accusations and malicious speech . Clarity and tranquility are also in the interests of the minor . For this procedure, this means the interests of the minor lies in an early decision, as it itself has stated.

The authority 5.2 Pursuant to Article 1: 253n of the Civil Code (CC), the court may, at the request of not competing unmarried parents or one of them, the joint custody termination and after -in this case- the divorce conditions are changed. Pursuant to Article 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code in conjunction with Article 1: 251a (1) of the Dutch Civil Code, the judge can then determine that custody of a child belongs to one of the parents if:

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child might become trapped or lost between the parents and that it is not expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, or

b. a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child .


5.3
In the contested decision, the court provided extensive reasons why in the present case the criterion mentioned above under 5.3 under a and also why the termination of the joint custody of the parents over the minor is necessary in its interest. Among other things, the court pointed out the consequences for the minor of the serious person, a continuing divorce battle between her parents , the criminal proceedings that the mother went through and the disturbed relationship between those involved. The court can decide after its ownfind research in the court's considerations, adopt it here and make it his. The court adds the following.
5.4
Also on appeal it turned out that there is no basis for joint exercise of authority by the parents . The mutual relationship and communication are too disturbed for that . the minor is trapped and the way in which the divorce of her parents and the arrest of her mother by the police went, has certainly been traumatizing for the minor . Although the mother ultimately not criminally convicted of the attempted incitement of an offense to life the father andthreatening him, and involvement in the sudden death of the ex-partner of the (now also ex-) partner of the mother , it is clear to the court that the mother and her then partner regularly discussed this for a longer period of time. conducted in the presence of the children and with third parties and even after they were warned by the police to stop The threat was taken so seriously that for some time the father even - without knowing it - received police protection. The mother has to a certain extent acknowledged those statements in her appeal, albeit according to the mother have taken place in a closed circle and have been taken out of context. The court finds it understandable that the course of events has evoked serious feelings of insecurity on the part of the father and the minor . It goes without saying that this has been very damaging to mutual relationships and trust. This does not mean that the father is free of blame. Both parents have not succeeded in limiting their divorce problem , keeping the minor out of the gap and bridging their differences in the best interests of the minor . The Court of Appeal has not found any concrete starting points, for example in regret or problem insight, to assume that this will improve in the foreseeable future.
5.5
Insofar as it has been argued on behalf of the mother that the tap records in question from the criminal file have not been used lawfully by the father , the Court of Appeal considers that in proceedings such as the present one only in very exceptional circumstances should evidence be disregarded on the ground that it has not been obtained lawfully ( ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 942 ). Such very exceptional circumstances do not occur here in the opinion of the court of appeal, in view of the reciprocal and the interests involved.
5.6
The above means that the court will reject all requests from the mother on appeal.

The interaction between the minor and the mother


5.7
Pursuant to Article 1: 377e of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may, at the request of a parent, change a decision on intercourse on the grounds that the circumstances have subsequently changed, or that incorrect or incomplete information was taken into account when making the decision .

Under Article 1: 377a paragraph 3, DCC denies the judge the right to deal only if

a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of the child or,

b. the parent must be deemed unsuitable or unable to interact , or

c. the child who is twelve years of age or older has shown at his hearing of serious objections to dealing with his parent , or

d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.8
It is not in dispute that there has been a change in the circumstances that means that the previously applicable access arrangement must be reassessed. The Court of Appeal has found that there is currently no room at all for the minor to restore contact with the mother . She has serious objections to this contact and has substantiated why she has this. In addition, there have been such violent events in the family system of the minor (as discussed above) that a forced contact with the mother is therefore also in conflict with weighty interests of the minor . This means that the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision with regard to the decision on access rights .


5.9
The minor has to explain particularly noted that they carefree as possible for the remainder of her childhood child wants to be. For the minor this means that she first wants to focus on the things that make her happy, such as her hobbies (horses and hockey) and her good school results. The court admires the way in which the minor has been able to describe and reason her situation and the choices she makes in this regard. Despite the fact that the minor now seems to be doing well, the court has also been able to establish that the minor was (emotionally) blockedas soon as her mother was mentioned in the conversation with the supervisory director. The court agrees with the court that there may still have to be some processing with the minor . The court therefore advises the father to seek professional help for the minor when it proves necessary and the minor is ready.

The request for further investigation 5.10 The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that sufficient information is available to be able to make a responsible decision, while in addition it should not be considered to be in the interest of the minor to remain in uncertainty any longer. After all, litigation has been going on for over 3.5 years about the position of the minor in relation to her mother . The court will therefore not order further investigation as requested by the mother . As far as the motherwhen it wished to align its request with the provisions of Article 810a, paragraph 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the Court of Appeal pointed out that the present dispute fell outside the scope of application of that article (cf. Supreme Court February 8, 2019: ECLI: NL: HR : 2019: 202 and accompanying claim).
The judicial and extrajudicial costs of proceedings


5.11
In view of the nature of the proceedings and the underlying problems, the court will compensate the costs of proceedings in such a way that everyone bears the costs of the proceedings. In this regard, the Court of Appeal considers that there are insufficient terms available for a court order to pay costs as requested by the father .


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the court will decide as stated below.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the Northern Netherlands court, location Groningen, of 4 December 2018 in so far as it is subject to this appeal;

compensates the costs of proceedings in such a way that each party bears its own costs of these proceedings;

rejects what has been requested more or differently.

This decision was made by mrs. JG Idsardi, C. Koopman and S. Rezel, assisted by AJTh. Harkema as clerk and was pronounced in public on November 21, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 10084