Content indication
Stepmother also involved stakeholder about authority , main residence and contact . Two of the three children have their father's main residence . The mother does not seem able to cooperate with the GI and the father . It blocks decisions in the interest of the children . That's why the father has one-headed authority .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-23
Publication date
2019-06-05
Case number
200.247.688 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
PFR-Updates.nl 2019-0166
EB 2019/84
JPF 2019/114
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.247.688 / 01

(Case number Court of the Central Netherlands C / 16/155010 / FL RK 18-331)

decision of 23 May 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: CM Bijl in Amsterdam,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: IM Redert in Vleuten.

The following are considered as other stakeholders:

the certified institution

Salvation Army Youth Protection & Probation Foundation ,

office in Rotterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

the stepmother ,

residing in B,

to be called further: the stepmother .


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Court of Midden-Nederland, location B, of 13 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 10 October 2018;

- the defense with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Bijl of 17 October 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Bijl of 10 December 2018;

- a journal report from Mr. Redert of 26 February 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from the GI of 1 March 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from the Child Protection Board of 7 March 2019;

- a journal report from mr. Redert of 11 March 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Bijl of 13 March 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The minor to be referred to below as the minor 2 has, by letter of 27 January 2019, made known to the Court of Appeal its opinion with regard to the appeal. The court of appeal expressed its opinion at the hearing.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 15 March 2019. The mother appeared in person and was assisted by her lawyer, who also spoke on the basis of pleading notes. The father appeared in person without the assistance of his lawyer. Mrs C was present on behalf of the GI .


2.4
At the hearing, the court promised that parties would be sent a copy of the letter from the council of 7 March 2019 whereby the council - at the (official) request of the court - informed that the council would not appear at the hearing because the presence of the GI, which has the most up-to-date information, is considered adequate unless the court requests otherwise.


3 The facts

3.1
Parties are the parents of:

- the minor1, born in 2003 in A (hereafter the minor1),

- the minor2, born in 2005 in A (hereafter the minor2), and

- the minor 3, born in 2009 in D (hereafter the minor 3).


3.2
In November 2013, the children under supervision provided in connection with the between parents existing (real) separation conflict and its impact on the educational environment of children . The main residence of the children was determined after the divorce in 2014 with the mother . In December 2014, the children were placed out of the house for a short time (foster family). the minor1 was subsequently placed with the mother again on 24 December 2014 and the minor2 and the minor3 in June 2015. Since the end of January 2016, the minor2 and the minor3 have been living with thefather , on the basis of an authorization granted for out-of- home placement . This authorization has since been extended. the minor1 was again placed in a closed youth care facility in January 2016 and has been living with the mother again since June 2016 .


3.3
By the contested decision of 13 July 2018, the principal residence of the minor2 and the minor3 is determined by the father and it is stipulated that from now on he will be entrusted solely with the authority over them. In addition, a specified holiday and public holiday arrangement has been established that includes when the minor2 and the minor3 stay with the mother and when the mother takes care of bringing the children back to the father . The court also has the independent requests of the mother , including the request for a minor2, a minor3 and a minor1appointed by the bankruptcy trustee .


3.4
The supervision order was last extended until 4 May 2019.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The parties are in dispute with the authority and principal residence of the minor2 and the minor3 and the division of care and upbringing duties with regard to the time at which the father brings the minor2 and the minor3 to the mother when the children are with her during the holidays of a week or longer.


4.2
The mother lodged an appeal with twelve complaints against the decision of 13 July 2018. The complaints I to VIII seek to address the dispute on appeal with regard to custody and the principal residence to the full extent. Ground IX relates to a supplement to the holiday and public holiday regulation. The complaints X up to and including XII refer to the rejected independent requests of the mother .

The mother requests, in short and after adjustment at the hearing, the decision whose appeal is to be annulled and again decisively reject the requests of the father and the independent requests of the mother , in the primary or subsidiary or more subsidiary variant, to allocate.


4.3
The father defends and asks the mother to declare inadmissible in her requests or at least to reject her requests.


4.4
The court of appeal will discuss the complaints on appeal per subject.


5 The reasons for the decision
* the procedural position of the stepmother


5.1
The question of the procedural position of the current partner of the father , and in particular whether she should be considered as an interested party, is a question on which the court must judge independently and also ex officio. For the assessment of that question, Article 798, paragraph 1, Code of Civil Procedure (Code of Civil Procedure), which for persons and family law in cases other than divorce cases , includes the person whose rights or obligations the case directly relates to. (first sentence) and more specifically it is included that (also) an interested party is the person who is not the parent and the minor to whom the case relates at least one year as a member of his family, care and education (second sentence).


5.2
Unlike the court and passing the objection on the part of the mother, the court of appeal has identified the father 's current partner as an interested party in the present proceedings. the minor2 and the minor3 have been since January 2016

cared for and raised within the family of the father and stepmother . It is true that only the father has (joint) parental authority over both children and not (also) the stepmother , but she has had actual (joint) responsibility for the care and upbringing of the children for some time . The fact that there is care and upbringing within the family for a period of more than one year is, in view of the second sentence of the first paragraph of said Article 798 DCCP, sufficient to qualify her as an interested party. The court of appeal is also of the opinion that there is now a (very) close relationship between the stepmotherand both children, which the court regards as family life as referred to in Article 8 of the ECHR. In addition, the issue at stake, certainly when it comes to the main residence of the minor2 and the minor3, also affects the stepmother 's family life . Also on the basis of the first sentence of the first paragraph of said Article 798 DCCP, the current partner of the father must therefore be regarded as an interested party.

* the wishes of the children


5.3
The Court of Appeal recognizes that the minor2 and the minor3, and in particular the minor2, have repeatedly expressed the wish to live with the mother (and the minor1) again. On appeal, the minor2 also made that wish known to the court, whereby she also indicated that she would like her parents to be able to continue to make decisions about her (and the minor3) together. The court has rightly considered that this wish was made out of loyalty to the mother , whereby the mother , quite rightly, has noted that children are in any case loyal to their parents .


5.4
The judge is obliged to take the wishes of the minor 2 (and the minor 3) as the opinion of the child into account in the present decisions. Where the children 's desire to live with the mother expresses their loyalty to the mother (and basically says little to nothing about the similarly existing loyalty to the father ), the court, like the court, considers that no decisive significance can be attributed to the opinion of the minor2 and the minor3. the minor2 has also repeatedly said that her (and the minor3) are doing well with the father .


5.5
Like the court, the Court of Appeal considered other facts and circumstances with regard to the interests of the minor 2 and the minor 3 to be of greater significance in the decision regarding the principal residence and authority and refers to the considerations below. In addition, the court also took into account the importance that brothers and sisters generally stay in the same family.

* the main residence


5.6
Pursuant to Article 1: 253a of the Civil Code (BW), the court may, at the request of the parents or one of them, establish a regulation concerning the exercise of parental authority . This arrangement may include the decision with which parent the child has his or her main residence .


5.7
The judge takes such a decision as he considers desirable in the best interests of the child . The court must take into account all the circumstances of the case in its decision, which may, where appropriate, lead to interests that outweigh the best interests of the child , no matter how important that interest must be a first-order consideration when weighing up interests.


5.8
When assessing the whereabouts of the children in their best interest, it is important that the minor 2 and the minor 3 have now been living with the father and stepmother for more than three years and that the father 's family lives in B their trusted home - and living environment. They have had a positive development with the father . The Court of Appeal deduces in particular from the GI information that there is a calm, safe and stable upbringing situation in which the children are offered what they need. The father and thestepmother have, with an eye on the vulnerability of the minor3 due to his congenital disorder (velocardiofacial syndrome) and the impact of the divorce struggle on the children, received intensive (parenting) support from E, and successfully completed it. The father (and the stepmother ) have picked up the advice and connect well with the children . the minor3 now attends special education and shows both cognitive and emotional progress. the minor2 has had play therapy for some time and successfully completed it. Contrary to what the mother has stated, without any further substantiation, there are noneindications that the safety of the minor2 and the minor3 is at stake for the father .


5.9
The mother further argues that the minor2 and the minor3 were also doing well when they were both still living with her and that, if and insofar as necessary, she also provided adequate and timely assistance for them. To substantiate this, she has also submitted various statements (including from her general practitioner and the primary school director). Whatever else may be said, it is certain that the minor2 and the minor3 were placed with the father in January 2016 by means of an out-of- home placement authorization . This measure has since been repeatedly extended. It is clear that for some time work is no longer being done on home placement of the children with the mother , because themother was unable / unwilling to meet the basic conditions of the GI at the time, supported by the court and court formulated, namely cooperation with the GI (with a view to the education environment of children ) and cooperation with the father (with a view on his contacts with the children ). In that light, it remains of concern, in particular also with regard to the minor1 who lives with the mother , that the mother is apparently still unable to seek cooperation with the GI and, in that context, to provide assistanceto accept, so that there is still too little insight into the home situation of the mother and thus the upbringing situation of the minor1 at the mother's home.


5.10
The Court of Appeal finally agrees with the GI that it is in the interests of the minor2 and the minor3 that there is clarity about their future perspective. The mother is unable to accept the stay of the minor 2 and the minor 3 with the father and is insufficiently able to keep her negative feelings towards him at this point out of the children . For the minor2 and the minor3 it should be clear that they live with their father and will continue to live there. In that context, the court notes that from the information from the GI it appears that the decision of the court has already had a positive effect in the sense that the minor2 is continuing to build up her life in B.


5.11
Taking everything into consideration, the Court of Appeal, as considered above, is of the opinion that it is in the best interests of the minor2 and the minor3 that they have their principal residence with the father . The Court of Appeal will ratify the decision on this point.

* the authority


5.12
Pursuant to Article 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code in conjunction with Article 1: 251a of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may, at the request of the parents or one of them, terminate the joint custody if there is a change of circumstances and determine that custody of a child belongs to one of them due if:

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child might become trapped or lost between the parents and that it is not expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, or

b. a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child .


5.13
Following the decision on the (main) residence of the minor2 and the minor3 with the father , the court also sees sufficient grounds to change the joint parental authority over both children and to grant the authority to the father alone. The court of appeal endorses the judgment of the court and also agrees with the reasons for this, all after its own investigation . The Court of Appeal is also of the opinion that the children have become trapped and lost between the parents and that there is no expectation that the relationship between the parents will improve in the foreseeable future such thatparents will be able to take (important) decisions regarding the exercise of authority together, or at least be able to take it without burdening the children .


5.14
It is also clear to the court that parties are unable to exercise joint custody of the children . Consultation and communication between the parents has not been possible for a long time and in the case of repeated decisions regarding the exercise of authority by the mother have been stopped and / or disputes have been settled by the court. For example, procedures have been necessary with regard to the registration of the minor2 and the minor3 with the doctor and dentist of the father and the (secondary) school of the children . This directly affects the interests of the childrenconcerned. The mother has rightly pointed out that she cannot be denied the right to make use of the powers she is entitled to make a difference of opinion with the father and / or the GI (whether or not regarding the exercise of authority ) for a decision in court to submit. However, this does not alter the fact that the mother with (the manner of) using these powers, in particular where they relate to school and medical issues, seems to ignore the well-being of the children and apparently uses these powers as a means to to express its views on these issues because it is not in a position to discuss them (in any other way) with thefather and the GI .

* the assistance process desired by the mother


5.15
The Court of Appeal understands that the mother would have liked to see that the decision regarding the main residence and / or custody would have been kept for some time now that she is appealing for a counseling process (between the parents ) on appeal . From the documents and the proceedings at the hearing, however, the Court of Appeal has proved conclusively that this has not been possible for years and even now between the parties. The mother is barely able to be in the same room with the father - reason why, for example, she was not present at the hearing before the court - and she is currently unable or hardly able to provide information to thefather about the children . Against this background, the court does not see any real options for providing assistance to parents with a view to improving mutual understanding. Moreover, the uncertainty and lack of clarity for the minor 2 and the minor 3 about the place where they live and grow up would continue, and the court does not consider this to be in their interest , as the court also considered and also indicated E and the GI . the minor2 and the minor3 need clarity about their place of residence and the father must be able to make important decisions about them, including with regard to school and medical treatments, independently.

* the holiday and holiday arrangement


5.16
The dispute on appeal with regard to the holiday and public holiday regulation determined by the court only concerns the time when the minor2 and the minor3 will be brought by the father to the mother when the children (according to the holiday and public holiday regulation established by the court ) stay with the mother during the holidays of a week or more . The court will determine that the father will take the children to the mother on Saturday at 10 a.m.where the interests of the minor3 have been decisively clear. The parties indicated at the hearing that they agree with this.


5.17
It was also discussed at the hearing that the court for Easter and Pentecost had made an arrangement - amounting to a division every two and a half years - that might not fit in well with the previously established weekend arrangement. The mother has stated on this point that she understands that the children will stay with her from Sunday 10.00 am if Easter and / or Pentecost is not part of or connects to the regular visit weekend and from Saturday 10.00 am if Easter and / or Pentecost is is part of or connects to the regular weekend. The fatherhas indicated that he agrees with this clarification. The Court of Appeal has promised parties to include (the agreement on) this explanation in the decision.

* further independent requests from the mother


5.18
On appeal, the mother has her (primary) request for substitute permission to register the children with the experts she has appointed for the hearing and possible treatment, or at least (alternatively and in the further alternative) to appoint a special guardian for the children , whether or not in the person of experts nominated by it, repeated insofar as it concerns the minor2 and the minor3. The court of appeal rejects these requests with reference to the grounds of the court that the court takes over after its own investigation . The Court of Appeal adds that the appointment of a guardian ad litem is also requiredwith an independent position, will not be able to make a substantial contribution to the decisions before the court and taken by the court. After all, the Court of Appeal also took into account the opinion of the minor2 and the minor3 in his opinion.


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the complaints fail except for the point of the holiday and holiday arrangement. The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision, in so far as it is subject to its judgment, and supplement the decision with regard to the holiday and holiday regulations as described in paragraph 5.16.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the order of the Central Netherlands court, location Almere, of 13 July 2018, to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court;

Supplements this Decision at the point in time when the minor 2 and the minor 3 will be brought by the father to the mother when the children (according to the court's holiday and holiday rules) during the holidays of a week or longer at the stay with the mother and, in that context, provide that the father brings the minor2 and the minor3 to the mother on Saturday at 10 am ;

complements this order in the sense that the court understands that the children will stay with the mother from Sunday 10.00 am if Easter and / or Pentecost is not part of or connects to the regular intercourse weekend and from Saturday 10.00 am if Easter and / or Pentecost is part of or connects to the regular weekend;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by MAF Holtvluwer-Veenstra, MP den Hollander and MALM Willems, assisted by J. Robben, as clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 23 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4516