Content indication
written instruction declared expired, broader access arrangement determined.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-09-17
Publication date
2019-09-24
Case number
200.251.352 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.251.352 / 01

Court case number: C / 13/653730 / JE RK 18-880 and C 13/653799 / JE RK 19/885

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 17 September 2019 concerning

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: M. Spil in Amsterdam.

The following are considered as stakeholders:

- the father (hereinafter: the father );

- the certified Amsterdam Youth Protection Agency (hereinafter: the GI);

- the grandmother (hereinafter: the grandmother);

- minor 1 (hereafter: child A);

- minor 2 (hereafter: child B);

- minor 3 (hereafter: child C).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location: Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the juvenile court in the Amsterdam District Court of 9 October 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 14 December 2018 against the decision of 9 October 2018.


2.2
The father submitted a statement of defense on January 29, 2019.


2.3
The GI submitted a statement of defense on 21 June 2019.


2.4
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a journal report from the mother of 15 July 2019 with an attachment, received on 16 July 2019;

- a letter from the GI of 2 August 2019 with appendices, received on 5 August 2019.


2.5
The court of appeal has given the minor child A the opportunity to make his opinion known. He has not used it.


2.6
The oral hearing took place on 12 August 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer and accompanied by two Humanitas employees;

- L. Nix, lawyer in Amsterdam, acting for the father ;

- two employees of the GI;

- Mrs X on behalf of the council .

The father and the grandmother, although properly summoned, did not appear. No one appeared on behalf of Family House KindVop , summoned as an informant.


3 The facts

3.1
From the (now broken) relationship of the mother and father are born:

- child A on the date of birth 2005;

- child B on the date of birth 2008;

- child C on the date of birth 2010 (hereafter jointly: the children ).

The father has recognized the children . The father and the mother are jointly responsible for the custody of the children .


3.2
The children were placed under supervision by order of the juvenile court judge in the Amsterdam District Court of 7 April 2016 . The measure has subsequently been extended, most recently until 8 April 2020.

As part of the supervision order , the children removed from their homes on February 10, 2017. The measure has subsequently been extended, most recently until 8 April 2020.


3.3
child A has been staying with the grandmother (mother's side) since April 2017 instead of having first stayed in a foster family . child B and child C stayed in Family House KindVopop in Enschedé (after having first stayed in several (crisis) foster families ) and since August 6, 2019 have been staying (temporarily) in a family house instead.


3.4
The GI gave the mother a written instruction on 15 August 2018 , including the following access arrangements: once a month the children stay with the mother and the family for a weekend from Saturday 10 am to Sunday 5 pm . The children spend the night with one of their parents . The mother picks up child B and child C instead and returns them the next day. She also brings child A back. In addition, the children stay with the mother once a month on a Saturday from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.. The mother spends the day in the vicinity of place and / or place.

Furthermore, an arrangement has been made for dealing with child A during the 2018 holiday and an arrangement has been made for telephone contacts between the mother and the children .

The father has received an identical written instruction ; he and the mother jointly implement the access arrangement .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, as far as it is relevant at present, the mother 's request for the written designation of 15 August 2018 to be canceled and to determine an access arrangement whereby the children stay with her twice a month from Friday after school until 5 p.m. on Sunday , at least to determine such an access arrangement as the court would consider correct, rejected.


4.2
The mother requests that, by annulment of the contested decision to that extent, her preliminary application be granted.


4.3
The father endorses the mother 's appeal and his point of view is to revoke the written designation .


4.4
The GI requests - in short - to ratify the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Section 1: 265f (1) of the Dutch Civil Code, the GI may, insofar as necessary in connection with the placement of the minor , remove the contacts between a parent charged with custody and the minor for the duration of the placement . Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 265f, paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the decision of the GI is a written instruction and Articles 1: 264 and 1: 265 of the Dutch Civil Code apply mutatis mutandis, on the understanding that the juvenile court may adopt such an arrangement like him in the best interests of the minor desirable.


5.2
The mother wishes to extend her contact with the children and also states that such an expansion is in the interest of the children .

In the first place, she argues that the GI has insufficiently substantiated why the current access arrangement is in the interest of the children . It is not clear whether Spirit and Formaat have been asked for advice and the family housemother only prepared a report shortly before the first instance session. It has not been shown that interaction has a negative effect on the children . The mother contradicts that she and the father burden the children with adult issues and loyalty issues . The GI has the loyalty issues it has raisednot supported by the opinion of an expert. After every contact the children are restless, but the mother considers such unrest inherent in the situation and therefore inevitable. The unrest will not increase with the children if the interaction is extended. On the contrary, it will give them peace and it makes it possible for the mother and father , who are now separated, to no longer have to jointly implement the access arrangement , but to fill in half each.

Secondly, the mother states that the perspective of the children is not yet clear. Even if that perspective does not lie with her and / or the father , the mother states that expansion of the relationship is appropriate.

Finally, the mother argues that the children themselves indicate that they want to spend more time with each other and with their parents . In view of this wish, as well as their attachment to the parents and each other, extending the relationship is in the interest of the children .

At the hearing on appeal, the mother reiterated that it was her wish, and that of the father and the children , to have an access arrangement of a weekend every two weeks in which the children stayed one night with the mother and one night with the father .

Such an arrangement is fair and provides clarity. The mother is doing well and she has sufficient capacity to implement the access arrangements she wishes . She points out that Formaat writes in his report that the mother has sufficient parenting skills.


5.3
The father supports the mother 's point of view and adds that the established access arrangement encounters practical objections for him because he is the manager of a night café instead. He therefore works at night so that it is virtually impossible for him to pick up child B and child C on Saturdays, especially when they were still in place. Furthermore, the father does not see why lack of clarity about the perspective of the children stands in the way of extending contact .

At the hearing on appeal, counsel for the father to the above added that GI has not explained why two weekends intercourse per month instead of eighteen weekend per month burdensome for children is. In the midst of the change of family home in the case of child B and child C, the parents are the stable factor for the children . The man is willing to close his night café one or two nights a month when the children spend the night with him.


5.4
The GI is of the opinion that the access arrangement between the mother and the children should not be extended. The parents can provide the children with basic care, but they are not able to take care of the complete care and upbringing, for which reason the GI Format has had the children 's perspective investigated . Taking this investigation into account , the GI, together with Spirit, has determined an access arrangement that has been extended several times. With the current access arrangement , thechildren burdened as little as possible with the problems of the parents and get enough rest between contacts. What Formaat advised orally to the GI about the continuation of the placement of the children , means that the GI sees no reason to expand the contact .

At the hearing on appeal, the GI maintained its position that the children should undergo as few changes as possible and that the current access arrangements should therefore not be changed. The fact that the two youngest children now temporarily live in another family home closer to the parents does not change this. A visitation arrangement of one weekend every two weeks is too much for the children . They must be given time to recover after intercourse . Especially child C is restless again after intercourse . child B is just quieter after being with herhas been parents . In the past, the mother has had unstable times several times. Certainly also in view of the children 's perspective , it is not logical to extend the access arrangement . The calling plan has recently been expanded: the parents and child B have the opportunity to call three times a week.


5.5
At the hearing on appeal, the council advised to maintain the current access arrangement . The children have experienced a lot. The access arrangement is now going well and is clear to the children . Predictability and stability is in their interest. The coming period should be used to clarify the perspective of the children , after which hopefully a definitive placement will follow. Only then is it time to see which access arrangement is appropriate and whether the current arrangement qualifies for a change.


5.6
The Court of Appeal has the question as to which access arrangement appears desirable in the interests of the children . In view of the content of the appeal, and the explanation of the mother at the hearing on appeal, her appeal also relates to the relationship between the children and the father . The court concludes from the GI 's defense that the GI has also understood that.

Following the GI , the Court is of the opinion that clarity and predictability are important for the children , who have already experienced a lot, including domestic violence between their parents and changes in their parenting situation. Unlike the GI and the council , the court, however, that an access arrangement which provides more clarity and predictability same amount each time than an arrangement in which the intercourse one time with lodging and other times without accommodation. Moreover, the GI has insufficiently substantiated why an extension of the access arrangementto a weekend every two weeks, which means that the children spend an extra day every two weeks with the parents on top of the three days they already stay with them, is too burdensome for them. It has been found that the children are doing well under the circumstances and that they enjoy dealing with their parents and with each other. Although child B and child C show deviant behavior during a day after an intercourse weekend , the GI has made it insufficiently clear that the behavior of the child is unclear compared to the mother 's statement that some unrest is inherent to the situation.children will get worse in the event of an extension of the contact . In addition, the deviant behavior of, in particular, the youngest two children is alleged that contact with the parents has been a stable factor in the past period (especially for child B and child C in view of their recent temporary transfer) and the desire of the children to to see the parents and each other more often. Moreover, it is not in dispute that the bond between the parents and the children is close and that the mother has experienced personal growth in the past year. Furthermore, theGI acknowledges that the mother has sufficient parenting skills to have the children with her for a weekend. In addition, parents now seem able to make mutual agreements about the (implementation of) access arrangements .

With the GI , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that a further extension of the access arrangement in the sense that it always starts on Friday - so that each access weekend consists of two overnight stays - is taken too far. The parents' wish to have the children spend a night with each of them is tangible, but on this point the court follows the GI and the council in their argument that there is already much going on in the lives of the children and that too many changes will put them out of balance. Now the children since their out-of- home placementnot accustomed to already Friday from school association have with their parents , is such a modification of the visitation clarity and predictability required for them any good. If the perspective as well as the location of all three children is clear and then it will also be known how the access arrangements currently to be determined are going, it can be considered whether further expansion (or limitation) is desirable.


5.7
In view of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will declare the written designation of the GI of 15 August 2018 void with regard to the established visiting moments (the telephone contacts will remain unchanged) and will determine a visitation arrangement with effect from the date of this decision whereby the children agree to stay with the parents every two weeks from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The parents must make mutual agreements, together with the GI, about the implementation of this access arrangement in the sense that at least it is recorded with whom of both parents the childrenstay overnight, taking into account that clarity and regularity are of great importance for the children .


5.8
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

annul the decision whose appeal and, once again:

declares the written designation of 15 August 2018 to lapse with regard to the visiting moments specified therein;

determines from now on the following access arrangement: once every two weeks the children spend a weekend from Saturday 10 am to Sunday 5 pm with the parents , whereby the children spend the night with one of the parents and the parents take care of the collection and delivery ;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by GW Brands-Bottema, AN van de Beek, and JA van Keulen, in the presence of FJE van Geijn, as clerk, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on 17 September 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3426