Content indication
No access arrangement grandma / granddaughter. Mother does not support such a scheme. There is a fight between mother and grandmother and parents also have a disturbed relationship. Intercourse will bring granddaughter into a loyalty conflict.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-29
Publication date
2019-11-13
Case number
200.248.219 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.248.219 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 19/122569 / FA RK 18-701)

decision of 29 October 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the grandmother,

WG ten Have in Winschoten, lawyer,

and

defendant,

residing at an address known to the court,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: H. Diepeveen in Meppel.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Assen, of 18 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 18 October 2018;

- the defense;

- a journal report from mr. Diepeveen of 4 December 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Ten Have of 22 January 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Ten Have of 19 February 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Ten Have of 4 March 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr. Diepeveen of September 10, 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 10 October 2019. Parties have appeared, assisted by their lawyers. On behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Board ), mr. B appeared.


3 The facts
The applicant is the mother of the mother and grandmother of the minor the minor , born in 2010.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
There is (the interpretation of) the right of association of the minor with the grandmother between the parties . In the contested decision, the court declared the grandmother inadmissible in its request to establish a rule on the exercise of access rights because of the lack of a close personal relationship.


4.2
The grandmother has appealed with two complaints. These complaints are intended to raise the full scope of the appeal. The grandmother requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision and, after changing the request at the hearing, to once again have an access arrangement in which the minor is with the grandmother once a month for a few hours, or at least to adopt an access arrangement such as the court in good justice alleged to belong. Conditionally, in the event that her request to establish access arrangements is rejected, the grandmother requests that an information arrangement be established.


4.3
The mother defends. She asks the court to declare the grandmother inadmissible in her appeal, or at least to reject the grandmother's appeal.


5 The reasons for the decision
The admissibility of the grandmother in her request


5.1
The Court of Appeal first and foremost states that the grandparents of a child can be received in their request if they set sufficient concrete circumstances for the existence of family life as referred to in Article 8 paragraph 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR). Biological kinship is one of the facts and circumstances on the basis of which a close personal relationship can be assumed. It is therefore important that the grandmother is the minor 's grandparent . However, additional circumstances still need to be stated that show that there is a difference between her and the minor a close personal relationship exists or a bond that can be regarded as family life within the meaning of Article 8, paragraph 1 of the ECHR, in such a way that an investigation into the possible justification of a visitation arrangement takes place.


5.2
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the grandmother has sufficiently substantiated that she has a close personal relationship with the minor and that her arguments on this point have not been sufficiently substantiated by the mother . From the birth of the minor to primary school age, the minor spent several days a week with the grandmother. That the mother's sister living with the grandmother was officially regarded as a childminder (she practiced in the homedoes not alter the fact that the grandmother, who did not work elsewhere at that time, was also often present and was able to build up an intensive bond with the minor . A bond that can be considered as a close personal relationship.

The fact that contact between the grandmother and the minor has been stopped since December 2017 does not mean that this close personal relationship has now been broken.

The court will therefore declare the grandmother admissible in its request.

The right to interact with the minor


5.3
According to article 1: 377a paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), a child has the right to have contact with his parents and with the person who has a close personal relationship with him. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of that article, the court, at the request of the parents or of one of them or of the person in close personal relationship with the child , decides whether or not for a definite period of time to govern the exercise of access rights . or deny whether or not for some time, the right to association .


5.4
Article 1: 377a BW paragraph 3 provides that the courts the right to deal only denied if:

a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of the child , or

b. the parent or the person in close personal relationship with the child must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or

c. the child who is twelve years of age or older , during his hearing of serious objections to dealing with his parent or with the person with whom he has a close personal relationship, or

d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.5
the minor is an eight-year-old girl who grows up in a complex family situation. In the mother 's original family, relationships are seriously disrupted , the grandmother still has no contact with any of her children . Serious accusations / accusations have been made between the grandmother on the one hand and the mother and her partner on the other , also on social media. the minor will undoubtedly get a lot out of it. There is no prospect of an improvement in the relationship between the mother and the grandmother. the minor putting in a contact arrangement with the grandmother that is not supported at all by the mother will lead to loyalty conflicts for the minor and have a negative impact on her.

In addition, the minor 's parents are separated and there is also a disturbed relationship between these parents and the minor has no contact with her father . There is currently a (higher professional) proceeding between the parents about an access arrangement with the minor . the minor is also involved in this, for example through a special guardian appointed by the court . the minor has already had enough to say in the coming period.

The Court understands that the grandmother of the minor love and miss her but the interests of the minor , weighed against those of the grandmother make that setting an access arrangement between the grandmother and the minors in conflict with the overriding interests of the minor .

The Court of Appeal will therefore reject the grandmother's request to establish access arrangements with the minor .

Subsidiary request for information scheme


5.6
This request is not based on law and will therefore be rejected.


6 The conclusion
The Court of Appeal shall annul the contested decision, in so far as it is subject to its judgment, and decide as follows.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

Annuls the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Assen, of

July 18, 2018, and again having:

- declared the grandmother admissible in her request;

- rejects the grandmother's requests for the establishment of an access arrangement and (alternatively) an information arrangement.

This decision was made by mrs. JG Idsardi, IM Dölle and

MAF Holtvluwer-Veenstra, assisted by mr. E. Klijn as clerk, and is gone

October 29, 2019 pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 9411