Content indication
Rejection of man's request for joint custody on the grounds of the legal exception referred to in Article 1: 253c, second paragraph under a, Dutch Civil Code.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-09
Publication date
2019-04-23
Case number
200.241.015 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.241.015 / 01

Case number court: C13 / 637520 / FA RK 17/7013 (ED / GV)

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 9 April 2019 concerning

the man ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: mr. N. Groen in Almere,

and

the woman ,

living at home,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: JJM Kleiweg in Amsterdam.

An interested party is the minor son referred to below (hereafter referred to as the minor ).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location: Amsterdam,

to be called: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the District Court) of 7 March 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
On 7 June 2018, the man appealed against a part of the aforementioned decision of 7 March 2018.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 27 February 2019. Appeared are:

- the man, assisted by his lawyer;

- the woman assisted by her lawyer;

- the board , represented by Mr. A. Witting, accompanied by a colleague.


2.3
The chairman spoke with the minor prior to the hearing, in the presence of the clerk . During the session, the chairman presented the content of this conversation in a business-like manner. Parties have had the opportunity to respond.


3 The facts

3.1
The minor was born from the now broken relationship between the man and the woman (hereafter also referred to as: the parents ) , in 2002 the place of birth. The woman only exercises authority over the minor . The man has recognized the minor .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, as far as it is relevant here, the husband's request to entrust him jointly with the wife with custody of the minor was rejected.


4.2
The husband requests, with the annulment of the contested decision to that extent, yet to determine that he and the wife are jointly entrusted with the authority over the minor .


4.3
The woman requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Under Article 1: 253c paragraph 1 of the Civil Code (the Civil Code) until it authority competent parent of the child who never has the authority jointly with the parent from whom the child is exercised born, the court ask the parents to burden the joint custody of the child . The second paragraph of this article stipulates that if the request aims to entrust parents with joint custody and the other parent does not agree with joint custody , the request will only be rejected if:

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child would become trapped or lost between the parents and that it would not be expected that there would be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future; or

b. rejection is otherwise necessary in the best interest of the child .


5.2
The man argues that the court has wrongly rejected his request for joint authority and argues, among other things, the following. The man sees the minor almost daily and makes agreements about this directly with the minor (which does not stand in the way of the woman). He is also responsible for the daily care of the minor and brings and brings him to and from school. Assigning joint custody would confirm the current state of affairs in which both parties are parents for the minor . Although the communicationbetween parties is not optimal, there is certainly no reason to believe that the minor is stuck or lost between them or will get lost. the minor is also capable of expressing his own interests. The incident in which the man picked up the minor from school for the interview at the court without consulting the woman is an unfortunate consequence of the confusion that arose after the court sent the invitation late. Finally, the woman refuses to cooperate in a process to improve mutual communication , despite repeated requests, the man said.


5.3
The woman lodged a defense at the hearing on appeal. The woman argues - in short - that the court has rightly rejected the man's request and, for this purpose, puts forward the following, among other things. the minor will soon be seventeen years old and the man has never raised the issue of joint custody . The major role in the care and upbringing of the minor that the man attributes to himself is not in accordance with reality. the minor goes to and from school alone, he lives with the wife and never stays with the husband. Practical problems will arise if the man is also responsible for the authority over the minor would be burdened since the parties disagree and the communication between them is poor. For example, there are two things that still need to be arranged in the context of the termination of their relationship, namely the repayment of debts and the sale of a joint home in Suriname, in which the man does not want to cooperate. In addition, the woman believes that the man will abuse the authority by not allowing the minor to go to Suriname this summer for the wedding of the woman and her new partner. the minor loves both parents, but is very busy with the ongoing procedure and is therefore in a loyalty conflict . There is therefore an unacceptable risk that the minor would get stuck or lost between the parents and it is not to be expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, according to the woman.


5.4
At the hearing on appeal, the council advised the Court of Appeal to reject the man's request. the minor describes the current state of affairs from the point of view of both parents , but finds it difficult to say what he wants because he does not want to cause any problems. the minor sees the man regularly and appreciates that he is involved, but he has his permanent residence with the woman. This is a situation that has grown in recent years and there has never been a reason for a change. Given his age, it will be very confusing for the minor and not appropriate to suddenly change the situation formally, according to the council.


5.5
The court considers as follows.

The premise of the legislature is that parents the authority jointly exercise. For joint custody requires that the parents are actually able to properly consulted on issues that the minor concern and that decisions (of any consequence) about their child can participate in consultation, at least be able to agree on situations occur around the child .

The following has emerged from the documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal. The man has been detained for ten months since April 2016 for committing a drug-related offense. From August 2016, the man and the minor could again spend more time together, namely during the day and on weekday evenings, due to the man being transferred to a very limited security institution. The parents' relationship was broken in December 2016. It appears that since then they have been unable to consult about the care and upbringing of the minor and that their mutual relationship is no longer good. They don't talk to each other. the minor lives with the woman. Despite the fact that the man does not have a home of his own , he still plays a substantial role in the life of the minor . the minor sees him at least one day a week and also once or twice a week from school. The man also helps him with homework. the minor has found a way to deal with the situation between his parents . For decisions that are important, such as choosing a school, he discusses these separately with the woman and the man. A decision is made in this way. However, it has also happened that he makes choices himself and thereby withdraws from the authorityfrom the woman and then take refuge with the man. An example of this is that the minor did not go with the woman on holiday to Suriname in 2018 at the last minute, at Schiphol. He did not communicate his refusal to go with the woman, but ran away. The man then offered him shelter. Finally, it appears that there is a good relationship between the minor and each of the parents .


5.6
In view of the above, the Court is of the opinion that the relationship between the parents is difficult. There is little to no communication between parties and there is no question of making agreements about the minor in joint consultation. The only communication between parties is through the minor . The court agrees with the council that there is a real risk that at least the granting of joint authority will disrupt the current balance and that this will have a negative effect on the minor . It is not unlikely that joint authoritywill lead to a struggle between the parents , causing the minor to get stuck between the parents . Illustrative of this is what the parties put forward at the hearing in connection with the imminent wedding of the woman in Suriname. After a conversation with the minor , the wife has booked tickets, but she is afraid that the husband will refuse permission. After questioning, the man appeared to be only willing to give permission for the minor 's journey if this was explicitly also the minor 's wish. This time he did not see that as a parent is able to minors toguide in the relationship with his mother . Furthermore, the minor is now seventeen years old and will reach the age of majority in only a few months . When it comes to medical treatment, the minor is legally mature and the parents no longer have to grant permission. With regard to other important issues, the parents - taking into account the age of the minor - will have to take his vision into account and make decisions in consultation with him. In the case of joint custody , the minor will both with the man and with the woman have to get in line, while as a seventeen year old he also has his own will. This is because the relationship between the parents to a loyalty conflict with the minor may cause. The Court does not consider that this will be different in the short term.

In the light of all this, the Court of Appeal considers that there is a legal exception as referred to in Article 1: 253c, paragraph two, sub a, Dutch Civil Code. The request of the man to entrust him jointly with the woman with the authority over the minor will therefore be rejected and the contested decision will be ratified.


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court of appeal;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by GW Brands-Bottema, TAM Tijhuis, and PJWM Sliepenbeek, in the presence of J. van den Wildenberg, as clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public on 9 April 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 1233