Content indication
The administration and mentorship that were set up on 19 June 2018 and withdrawn from 18 October 2018 after the cantonal judge has heard the person entitled. The decision of 19 June 2018 was taken on good grounds and is ratified by the Court.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-02
Publication date
2019-04-16
Case number
200.246.613 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.246.613 / 01

(Case numbers Court of Central Netherlands 6948893 MT VERZ 18-5753 and 6948894 MT VERZ 18-5754)

decision of 2 April 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

hereinafter to be referred to as: the applicant or the father ,

lawyer: IMB Kramer in Amsterdam,

The following are considered as other interested parties:

daughter1

residing in B,

hereinafter to be called: daughter daughter1.

daughter2

residing in B,

to be called further: daughter daughter2.

the administrator BV .

established in A,

also to be called: the administrator and mentor .

the wife ,

unknown place of residence and residence in and outside the Netherlands,

to be referred to hereinafter as: the (second) wife of the applicant.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the order of the subdistrict court judge (District Court of Central Netherlands, Bewindsbureau , location Almere) of 19 June 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s) of the applicant, received on 19 September 2018;

- a letter of 27 September 2018 from mr. Kramer with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Kramer of 31 October 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report from Mr Kramer of 7 November 2018.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 11 February 2019. The applicant appeared, assisted by his lawyer. Daughter daughter2 has appeared in person. Daughter daughter1 did not appear. The applicant was accompanied by a friend, Mrs. C, and Mrs. D, an interpreter in the Russian language (registered in the interpreter register under number 000). Daughter's daughter2 was accompanied by her friend, Mr. E. The court has granted special access to the said girlfriend and boyfriend. From the side of the administrator BV. no one has appeared.


2.3
During the oral hearing, with the consent of the Court of Appeal, mr. Kramer submitted another missing document from the court file, namely a letter of 26 April 2018 from Dr. med. F, assistenzärztin, employed at the G in H, (Dld).


3 The facts

3.1
The applicant was born in 1953. Daughter1 and daughter2 are the daughters of the applicant. The applicant's current wife was deported to Russia in March 2018 due to the lack of a valid residence permit and her place of residence is unknown.


3.2
On 31 May 2018, through the intervention of the administrator BV, the daughters filed a petition with the court for the administration and mentoring of their father . Among other things, the aforementioned letter of 26 April 2018 from Dr. med was submitted. F, assistenzärztin, and a declaration signed by the applicant in I (Dld) on 5 June 2018, stating - in the Dutch and English language - that he agrees with the request for administration and mentoring .


3.3
By the contested decision of 19 June 2018, the subdistrict court judge placed the goods that belong or will belong to the applicant under administration because of his physical or mental condition and instituted a mentorship for the applicant. The administrator BV has been appointed as administrator and mentor .


3.4
The subdistrict court judge, considering that the request is immediately admissible and there is urgency, apart from hearing the applicant on the request before the decision was made. The subdistrict court judge has considered that the applicant will still be heard at a later date. On 12 October 2018, the subdistrict court judge heard the applicant at his home address in the Netherlands.


3.5
By separate orders of 18 October 2018, the subdistrict court subsequently canceled the administration and mentorship .

4. The scope of the dispute
The applicant brought an appeal against the decision of 19 June 2018 with one complaint. This complaint fully addresses the dispute on appeal and concerns both the manner in which the decision was reached and the content thereof.

in short, and taking into account the changes made at the hearing, the petitioner requests that the decision be annulled and the daughter's requests still rejected and that the (salary) costs of the administrator / mentor be borne by the daughters.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Section 1: 431 (1) of the Civil Code (BW), the subdistrict court may, if an adult becomes a

a. his physical or mental condition, or

b. wastage or having problematic debts ,

temporarily or permanently unable to fully his pecuniary interests properly perceive, a rule set for one or more of the goods that it is entitled accessory or will belong.


5.2
Pursuant to Article 1: 450 paragraph 1 of the Civil Code (BW), if a person is of age or temporarily unable or permanently unable or permanently to properly perceive his non-proprietary interests due to his mental or physical condition , set up a mentorship .


5.3
In the Recommendations on adulthood as established by the National Consultation Course contents Civil and District & Supervision on 10 April 2017 - and also in the most recent version on 7 September 2018 - the following recommendation was made under point 2 of Chapter A with regard to the hearing of Applicant (s), Person (s) and Stakeholder (s): To assess the necessity and scope of the administration , the starting point is that the applicants, the person concerned and the interested parties are heard , if necessary at the place of residence of the person concerned. Although Article 800 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides scope for the application to be immediately assigned to the documents, it is recommended that it is not used in principle.


5.4
In the Mentoring Recommendations as adopted by the National Consultation Course contents Civil and Canton on December 15, 2015, the following recommendation with regard to hearing has been made under point 2 of chapter A: The point of departure is that the person concerned is heard , if necessary at his place of residence . Although these recommendations do not state that the request for the establishment of a mentorship can also be granted immediately to the documents, article 800 DCCP also applies here, on the basis of which that space is available.


5.5
Now that the subdistrict court has abolished the administration and mentorship by orders of 18 October 2018, the only question on appeal is whether the subdistrict court, given the information available to it, has an appropriate administration and mentorship on 19 June 2018. and has been able to take those decisions without hearing the applicant about those requests.


5.6
At the time of his decision, the subdistrict court judge not only had the letter from both daughters of 29 May 2018 and the letter based thereon from the intended administrator and mentor , but also on the aforementioned letter from the doctor of 26 April 2018 concerning the inclusion of the applicant in the G in April 2018 and a declaration of consent signed by the applicant on 5 June 2018. In view of these documents, considered in relation to each other and in connection with each other, the Court of Appeal finds that there was sufficient reason at the time of the decision for the (immediate) imposition of both protective measures . The following is particularly relevant for this.


5.7
The daughter's letter and the doctor's letter of 26 April 2018 show that the applicant suffered a stroke in 2010 and has been suffering from seriousaddiction problems with profound consequences for and deterioration in his physical and mental state. The applicant left for Germany in April 2018 and was shortly afterwards, heavily influenced by alcohol, taken care of by Mrs. C, at her home address in Germany. Because his condition continued to deteriorate, the applicant was urgently admitted to the G where treatment was started for his alcohol addiction and where he was stabilized. The letters also show that the applicant had only limited insight into the seriousness of his alcohol addiction and the far-reaching consequences thereof, and partly because of this tended to provide assistanceto avoid. Both the daughters and the doctor had serious doubts as to whether, after further treatment in the Netherlands, the applicant would be able to cope independently, reason why the doctor provided a nursing home or a residential facility in which (day) structure and nursing is available, it was recommended. In addition, the subdistrict court judge was able to heed the statement of the applicant which he signed on 5 June 2018 - in the presence of one of the daughters and Mrs. C, as it appeared at the hearing - and expressly stated that he accepted the requests from his daughters for a reign and mentorshipconfigure. In the light of the other statements, he did not sufficiently substantiate the claim that he had not at all known what he signed for, irrespective of whether this could lead to a different opinion. At the hearing on appeal, the applicant has acknowledged that it has been explained to sign the requests were intended to finance him and his guard , especially against his wife. Ms C confirmed at the hearing that not only the daughters but also she was seriously worried during that period about the physical and mental condition of the applicant and the possibility that he would be guided in his (further) decisions by the (financial) wishes of his wife.


5.8
Although the starting point is that the subdistrict court judge hears the person concerned before giving a decision on an application for administration or mentoring, it is not excluded, as was also considered above, that - for example in cases of urgency, the documents will be decided immediately, therefore without the person concerned ( and other stakeholders). In view of the available information, as mentioned above, whereby the court takes into account that on the letter from the intended administrator and mentoris stated under the attribute “URGENT”, the subdistrict court judge could reasonably have assumed the existence of urgency. The Court of Appeal acknowledges that the suspension of hearing, as the subdistrict court judge has done, has resulted in a decision being made that can no longer be undone in its consequences. However, this does not alter the fact that, as the Court of Appeal considered above, the grounds for the protective measures were present at the time of the decision .


5.9
Finally, the Court of Appeal observes that, contrary to what the applicant claims, independent diagnosis by a doctor is not necessary to assume that an adult, due to his mental or physical condition, is temporarily or permanently unable to fully fulfill his interests of a property law nature. or properly perceive his non-proprietary interests.


5.10
Taking everything into account, the court of appeal comes to the conclusion that the decision from which good grounds have been appealed must be validated. The applicant's request that, in the event of the decision being annulled, of which an appeal and rejection of the preliminary application, be ordered to order both daughters to pay the (salary) costs of the administrator and mentor , there is no need for further discussion.


6 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the complaint fails. The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

confirms the decision of the subdistrict court judge in the Central Netherlands court, Bewindsbureau , location Almere, of 19 June 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This order was made by IA Vermeulen, EBEM Rikaart-Gerard and M. Weissink, assisted by J. Robben, as clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 2 April 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 3231