Content indication
Supervision , request to appoint an expert on the basis of Article 810a, paragraph 2 of the Code rejected, inadmissible in request for replacement GI.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-05
Publication date
2019-11-12
Case number
200.257.525 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2019: 620
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.257.525 / 01

Court case number: C / 15/281843 / JU RK 18-2194

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 5 November 2019 on

the mother ,

residing at domicile, municipality Z,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: SN Peijnenburg in Purmerend, The Netherlands

and

the certified institution Youth Protection Region Amsterdam,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following are considered as stakeholders:

- the father (hereinafter: the father );

- child A;

- child B;

- Child C.

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location: Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in the Noord-Holland court (location Alkmaar) (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ) of 10 January 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 9 April 2019 against the decision of 10 January 2019.


2.2
The GI submitted a statement of defense on 3 June 2019.


2.3
The court has the minor child A and child B given the opportunity to express their opinion making. child B informed by letter of 9 May 2019 that he did not want to take this opportunity.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 30 August 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- an employee on behalf of the GI;

- the father .

The mother 's lawyer and the GI submitted a pleading in court.

The council, although properly summoned, did not appear.


2.5
The GI submitted a document for oral hearing, namely a report of the Child Supporter of 15 July 2019.


3 The facts

3.1
From the (broken in 2010) relationship of the mother and father are born:

- child A in 2002,

- child B in 2006 and

- child C in 2008 (hereafter jointly: the children ).

The mother and father jointly exercise authority over the children . child A lives with the father and child B and child C live with the mother .

As part of a care arrangement remains child A - with child B and child C - one weekend every two weeks with the mother . child B and child C spend the weekend with the father every other week - together with child A - .


3.2
By order of 18 January 2018 of the juvenile court , the children were placed under the supervision of the GI for the duration of one year.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision, in accordance with the GI's request, extended the supervision of the children to 18 January 2020. The mother 's requests for the appointment of an expert and for the replacement of the GI were rejected.


4.2
The mother requests, by annulment of the contested decision, by interim decision on the basis of Article 810a paragraph 2 DCCP , to appoint an expert, being a forensic psychologist , who is charged with conducting an investigation into the psychological problems within the family and on the basis of to make recommendations for appropriate, necessary assistance and then, in the final decision, primarily to reject the GI 's request to extend the supervision of the children and, in the alternative, to reject the request for an extension, appointing another GI, for example the William Schrikker Foundation.

At the hearing on appeal, the mother supplemented her request in the sense that she now requests that NIFP be appointed as an expert.


4.3
The GI requests, as the Court of Appeal understands, to ratify the contested decision with regard to the extension of the supervision order , to declare the mother inadmissible in its request to replace the GI, or at least to reject the mother 's requests .


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The mother argues that having an expert carry out research is necessary to assess whether supervision is necessary, because it is only on the basis of that research result that help can be determined for children (and their parents ). The mother does not dispute that there are concerns about the children and that they need help ; on the contrary, she has been asking for help for years. The children have been trapped between their parents for eight years . The mother suspects that psychicproblems underlie the struggle between her and the father . The mother will accept assistance if it is appropriate, that is to say, in line with the psychological problems. Since no appropriate assistance has been offered so far, the mother has also not refused it, so that it cannot therefore be concluded that the grounds for supervision have been met , as included in Section 1: 255 of the Dutch Civil Code. On the basis of that article, one of the requirements for being placed under supervision is that aid is not or insufficiently accepted.

The mother has already had research carried out by Mr JMJ Storms (hereafter: Storms), referred to in his report as a consciousness expert and working at AMBAjuvenile. On the basis of his file analysis, Storms concludes that the father has been encouraged to reject the parent . The father 's strategy is extremely harmful. He takes revenge on the mother through the children and that is the most severe form of psychological abuse . Storms warns that the mother 's attitude, in which she questions the help offered, not to be misunderstood - namely, the engagement of the struggle - to be understood.

The mother requests that the recommendations of Storms be adopted. He concludes that all family members need help and that personality surveys are needed.

The mother does not see, in view of the time that has elapsed, how the juvenile court has been able to conclude that a small delay, which will lead to a proper investigation and well-founded assistance , cannot be in the best interests of the children .

In view of the above, the juvenile court judge should not have extended the supervision order now that the grounds for that measure were not present, or should have requested the extension of the supervision order and had an expert carry out an investigation .


5.2
In its statement of defense, the GI provided an outline of the family's assistance history .

In October 2014, the AMK registered the family for the first time about the voluntary assistance provided in connection with domestic violence and the very complex separation of parents . After discussions with parents , children and school, the process is completed. In November 2016, the GI became involved again, after both parents turned to the municipality for help and child A had submitted a request to the court to change his main residence (from the mother to the father).). The GI has registered the parents for Samen met Nienke. We were unable to reach agreements because the parents were pointing at each other; the assistance has therefore been terminated. Even children from the Compression has not got off the ground by the (legal) fight between the parents . The GI wanted the children to the child the guardian 's talk. Initially the mother refused to cooperate, but in the meantime those conversations have taken place. However, the mother is shocked by the outcome of those conversations and doubts whether it is the voice of thechildren . She has therefore withdrawn her permission.

The struggle between the parents continues and the children are involved in that struggle. Especially child A suffer from it. The children are embroiled in a loyalty conflict . Given that, to date, insufficient results have been achieved in the removal of the fight and the improvement of their communication during supervision , and the children continue to suffer from the fight, the GI considers it necessary to extend the measure. The GI wants to use the coming period to talk with the parents about the interpretation ofparallel parenthood .

With regard to the mother 's request for an investigation to be carried out, the GI states that the mother did not state in sufficient detail which points should be investigated and why this investigation could not be carried out by the Child Supporter . The GI suspects that the mother through research will receive confirmation that the father of parental alienation occurs, but it is under the GI question. The core of the problems is not so much in the earlier stalking behavior of the father(leading to a street ban until January 29, 2017), but in the continuous struggle between the father and the mother . The only thing that matters now is determining what the children need; this is the purpose of the Child Supporter . Moreover, delay due to research is not in the interest of the children . The GI therefore concludes that psychological examination is not appropriate.


5.3
Under Article 810a paragraph 2 of Civil appoints the court, among other things like this at the request of a parent , and after consultation with the older one expert, provided that it also can lead to the decision of the case and the importance of the child itself do not object to this. A sufficiently specific and relevant request for the application of Article 810a, paragraph 2, of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure, which contains facts and circumstances that lend themselves to an investigation by an expert, will in principle have to be granted if the court finds no facts or circumstances on the basis of which assuming that granting the request is contrary to the best interests of the child .

The mother states that an expert to be appointed must find out the cause of the problem by investigating whether there are any psychological problems with family members. Furthermore then determine the expert serving measures are necessary, as well as psycho-education for children and the other parent to go to with these issues, and should the investigation from the board to the actual interest and the actual will of the children continue.

The Court of Appeal considers that the research questions proposed by the mother are not sufficiently relevant to the assessment of whether an extension of the supervision of the children is appropriate. The mother would like to see that it is made clear which problems of the parents underlie their long-term, serious struggle. With the GI , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the question of the underlying cause of that struggle in the context of the decision about being placed under supervision is of secondary importance. The fact is that despite various interventions, the parents have been fierce for yearsthat this struggle continues to harden and that the children suffer from it. Both Storms and the GI are of the opinion that parallel parenting should be used , with the parents only having minimal contact and the necessary information is passed on via a third party, who also guides the parents in agreeing fixed frameworks and rules. With such a construction it is important that the parents start fighting each other less, but the court does not consider it necessary to find out exactly which possible psychologicalproblems underlie that struggle and the knowledge that is already available about the struggle of the parents and the background thereof is sufficient . The examination required by the mother does not therefore answer the question whether there is a developmental threat in the children . Nor does it answer the question of which assistance is necessary and therefore it does not provide a definitive answer as to whether the grounds for supervision are present.

Not only does the Court of Appeal consider the investigation requested by the mother not useful in this case, but it also considers that granting the request is contrary to the best interests of the children . Their cooperation is necessary for a personality test of the children . It has been found that the children have conversations with the Child Representative . Furthermore, the council and the GI are (have been) involved with the children . The Court does not consider the re-involvement of the children in a (new) investigation desirable.

In view of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision in so far as it rejects the woman's request to appoint an expert on the basis of Article 810a paragraph 2 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.


5.4
The question then arises as to whether the juvenile court judge has rightly extended the supervision of the children . The mother acknowledges that there is a serious development threat . To that extent, in her view, the criteria of Article 1: 260 in conjunction with 1: 255 BW are met. However, it states, as has already been discussed above, that no necessary help has been offered (since no research has been done into it), so that it cannot be judged that the parents do not accept this help either.

The mother and the GI , the court finds that the children grow up in such a way that it seriously in their development are threatened . The parents' conflicting relationships for many years have repercussions on the children and are reflected in , among other things, a loyalty conflict with the children . The children are continually stresses exposed, while between the parents there is disqualification , suspicion, a lack of communication and different parenting styles. The parents are such by conflicts seized, that they are not fully emotionally available to their children . The children are stuck with that. Storms also has in its report said that the healthy development of children is at risk, and that measures to kids to protect essential.

The care deemed necessary by the GI did not get off the ground, or only with difficulty. Children from the Knel has not started, Together with Nienke has ended and the interference of the Child Supporter has been difficult. In what the mother has put forward, the court sees insufficient reason to judge that the help offered is not appropriate. Partly in view of the documents and the substantiation of the GI , the relationship between the developmental threat - which is primarily the result of the struggle between the parents - and the range of care available is clear. That help in the voluntary framework (as well as in the compulsory framework)) has proved insufficient, is not only due to the seriousness of the problem, but also to the acceptance (and use) of the help offered.

Now that, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the grounds of Article 1: 255 of the Dutch Civil Code have been met, the juvenile court has rightly and on good grounds extended the custody of the children . The Court of Appeal will therefore also ratify the contested decision to that extent.


5.5
The mother also requested the appointment of another certified institution to carry out supervision , among other things because she blames the GI for including untruths and omissions in her reports, for working with unregistered professionals and for not supervising .

The GI has stated that the mother must be declared inadmissible in her request for the appointment of another certified institution .

The juvenile court may, pursuant to article 1: 259 BW certified institution that supervision is replaced by another certified institution , at the request of the authority responsible parent . However, it is stipulated in Article 807 sub a of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure that no other provision is available against decisions pursuant to Article 1: 259 of the Dutch Civil Code other than cassation in the interest of the law.

At the hearing on appeal, the mother argued that the exclusion of an appeal relates to decisions replacing a certified institution and not to decisions not to replace a certified institution . The exclusion of appeal is based on legal certainty; now that the GI has not been replaced in the present case, Article 807 sub a of the Code of Civil Procedure is not applicable, according to the mother .


5.6
The court considers as follows. In view of the legal text of article 807 sub a of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure, no appeal is possible against a decision based on article 1: 259 of the Dutch Civil Code, whereby no distinction is made between a decision to award an application and to reject a request to replace a certified institution . The court also sees no points of departure for the interpretation of the mother in the legal history and the explanation of the aforementioned articles .

Facts or circumstances that make it impossible to break the appeal ban in the present case have not been stated or proven. The mother is therefore declared inadmissible in her request to replace the GI.


5.7
For the sake of completeness, the court considers the following. In her appeal, the woman points to the failure of the GI. The woman also attaches great importance to the recommendations that Storms has included in his report. At the hearing, these recommendations were considered for some time, and it appeared that the approach of the GI is in many parts in line with these recommendations.

In this case Storms considers parallel parenting the best attainable construction. The GI also focuses on parallel parenting . In an interview with parents is also recommended by Storms calendar were discussed in May 2019, which is set annually for the care arrangement and can not be changed. Storms mentions a number of points that are important in the context of parallel parenting , such as monitoring in the case of the father to see whether he has indeed abandoned his plan to deprive the mother of the children . At the hearing on appeal theGI states that the father does not have parental rejection , but that the GI agrees with the recommendation for monitoring.

The Child Supporter also follows up Storms' recommendation to give the children psycho-education .

Storms also advises the mother to support her role and to give her coaching. The mother is hearing an appeal the wish again mother to be allowed to compete and to decide about the children . The GI has stated that it has offered both father and mother psychological help - including coaching - for the processing of the divorce .


5.8
Finally, the Court of Appeal considered that, as was already discussed at the appeal hearing, the Court of Appeal - unlike the court - will not disregard the transcript of her interview with the family manager (the case file) submitted by the mother , so that the mother 's sixth complaint in this sense is successful.


5.9
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

endorses the decision whose appeal has been rejected in so far as it refuses the mother 's request for the appointment of an expert and in so far as the custody of the children has been extended;

declares the mother inadmissible in her appeal to the extent that it is directed against the decision of the juvenile court regarding the replacement of the GI;

rejects the more or otherwise requested;

requests the clerk to send a copy of this decision to the clerk of the court of Noord-Holland (location Alkmaar, civil law department, family and juvenile law team, for the attention of the public register) under the provisions of the Decision on authority registers.

This decision was made by HA van den Berg, JMC Louwinger-Rijk and JA van Keulen, in the presence of FJE van Geijn as Registrar, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 5 November 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3990