Content indication
Expiry written notice . NIFP investigation. Admissibility, no breaking of the apple ban. 807 RV.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-07
Publication date
2019-09-17
Case number
200,255,748
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Arnhem

civil law department

court case number 200.255.748

(Case numbers Court of Central Netherlands 470224 and 470188)

decision of 7 May 2019

on

the mother ,

residing at domicile, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. NA de Kock in Utrecht,

and

the certified institution

Foundation Together Safely Middle Netherlands,

established in Utrecht,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the father ,

living at home,

to be called further: the father .


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in the Court of Midden-Nederland, court of Utrecht, further: the juvenile court judge , dated 16 November 2018, further: the contested decision, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with productions, received on 15 February 2019;

- the statement of defense on appeal with production of the GI.


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 9 April 2019 together with the appeal by the mother against the decision of 16 November 2018 concerning the extension of the term of the supervision of a child , pending before this court with case number 200.255.277.

The mother appeared in person, assisted by her lawyer. On behalf of the GI appeared employee 1 GI and employee 2 GI . No one appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board with prior notice. The father did not appear with prior notice.


3 The facts

3.1
The mother and father are the parents of child , further: child , born on date 2007 in place. They are jointly responsible for custody of a child .


3.2
child has been under the supervision of the GI since 14 May 2013 . Since then, the period for bringing under supervision has been extended each time, most recently by order of the Court of Midden-Nederland, court of Utrecht, from November 16, 2018 (pronounced under case number 470061) to December 2, 2019.


3.3
On October 22, 2018, the GI issued a written instruction to the mother , which (where relevant) includes the following:

“Samen Veilig Safe expects you, mother of child , to cooperate in the policy established by Samen Veilig to restore contact between the child and the father . This means that you cooperate with the NIFP study recommended by Samen Veilig. ”


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
By the contested decision, the juvenile court dismissed the mother 's request for revocation of the written designation of the GI of 22 October 2018 and confirmed that written designation at the request of the GI .


4.2
The mother appealed against the contested decision with one complaint. With this complaint, the mother intends to present the case to the court in full scope.

The mother requests the court, completely enforceable in stock, to annul the contested decision and to declare the GI inadmissible in its request or to reject her request. The court of appeal understands the appeal on appeal so that the mother requests the written designation of the GI to be canceled.


4.3
The GI puts forward a defense and requests the Court to reject the mother's appeal and to ratify the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
In the explanatory memorandum to her complaint, the mother states that in principle it is not possible to appeal against the contested decision, in view of Article 807 sub a of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure.

However, according to established case law, this legal prohibition of remedies can be broken, for example if the court has departed from the scope of this statutory regulation. According to the mother , this is the case in this case. The juvenile court judge qualifies the mother 's duty to cooperate in a study conducted by the Netherlands Institute for Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology (NIFP) as a written instruction concerning the care and upbringing of the minor . The motherstates that compulsory participation in a NIFP investigation not only involves bringing a child to that investigation , but also that she, too, is subject to investigation . This no longer concerns a care and upbringing task, just as a parent cannot be obliged to participate in a psychological examination .


5.2
The GI , for its part, argues that an NIFP investigation is not aimed at the investigation of the mother , but at the parent-child relationship and therefore at the care and upbringing of the child . An independent investigation and analysis of the current situation is necessary to break through the impasse in the relationship between the child and the father . The NIFP study will look at the therapy that the child receives, its effects and whether that therapy is appropriate, and whether the child still needsneeds rest. The question and the means to answer these are therefore not directed at the functioning of the parent himself, but at the interpretation of the care and upbringing duties of each parent in relation to child .


5.3
With regard to the admissibility of the mother in her request for revocation of the written designation of 22 October 2018, the court considers as follows.

Pursuant to Section 1: 263 (1) of the Civil Code (BW) Code, the GI may, in the performance of its duties, provide written instructions regarding the care and upbringing of the minor . Pursuant to the second paragraph of that article, the parent and minor charged with custody must follow these instructions and pursuant to the third paragraph of this article, the certified institution may request the juvenile court to ratify a written instruction once issued .

Article 1: 264 BW follows further that the juvenile court at the request of the authority responsible parent or minor aged twelve or older written instruction fully or partially void can explain.


5.4
Pursuant to Article 807 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure, a decision by the juvenile court based on (inter alia) Articles 1: 263, third paragraph and 1: 264 of the Dutch Civil Code is not open to appeal in cassation in the interest of the law.


5.5
Contrary to the opinion of the mother , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, by ratifying the written designation of 22 October 2018, the juvenile court judge did not depart from the scope of the statutory provisions of Article 1: 263 paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code and Article 1: 264 of the Dutch Civil Code. The purpose of the NIFP research is, after all, to assess what is necessary in the interest of the upbringing and care of a child , the possibilities and impossibilities of anyone who plays a role in his upbringing and care (not only of the mother ), then to see whether contact recovery is possible based on the results of this investigationbetween the child and the father can be considered to be in the best interests of the child , furthermore to guide everyone in the possible possibilities of contact recovery , and finally to provide rest and clarity for the child in the current situation. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, this concerns a written instruction relating to the care and upbringing of a child .


5.6
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the mother has also stated insufficient facts or circumstances for the remainder that must entail that the prohibition of appeal must be broken in the present case. This means that the mother is inadmissible in her appeal request.


6 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

declares the mother inadmissible in her appeal.

This decision was made by mrs. R. Krijger, CJ Laurentius-Kooter and MEL Klein, assisted by WWMW van den Bosch as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 7 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 3940