Content indication
Establishing access rights in conflict with the minor interests of the minor . Articles 1: 377a of the Dutch Civil Code, 8 ECHR, 9 CRC and 24 EU Charter.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-12-17
Publication date
2020-01-07
Case number
200.234.589 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Legal reference
Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Article 24 - 07/01/2020 24
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.234.589 / 01

Case number court: C / 13/618818 / FA RK 16-7794

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 17 December 2019 on

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: AE Bakker in Arnhem,

against

the certified institution William Schrikker Foundation for Youth Protection & Youth Probation ,

location Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following is also considered as an interested party:

- the minor daughter (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ).

The following were designated as informers:

- Mrs. Y (hereinafter referred to as: the special liquidator ).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the decision of the child judge in the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the District Court) of 29 November 2017, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 28 February 2018 against the decision of 29 November 2017.


2.2
The GI submitted a statement of defense on 25 May 2018.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on November 29, 2018. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the GI, represented by the youth care worker ;

- the guardian ad litem ;

- the board , represented by Mr. A. Witting.


2.4
At the hearing on appeal, the Court of Appeal held the oral procedure pending the agreements that the GI and the mother will make regarding the structure of the relationship . Furthermore, the Court of Appeal has decided that, in view of the termination of its duties, the guardian ad litem will no longer be invited to a subsequent session.


2.5
The following documents were subsequently received by the court:

- an e-mail message from the GI of 29 May 2019 with an attachment;

- a journal report from the mother of 24 May 2019, received on 29 May 2019 with an attachment;

- a journal report from the mother of 31 July 2019 with an attachment;

- a journal report from the mother of 18 October 2019;

- a journal report from the mother of 23 October 2019 with appendix.


2.6
Prior to continuing the oral hearing on appeal, the chairperson spoke with the minor . The content of this interview was discussed with the attendees at the hearing on appeal.


2.7
The continuation of the oral procedure took place on 23 October 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by PPE Buchele, acting for her office colleague AE Bakker;

- the GI, represented by the youth care worker ;

- the council , represented by Mrs. N. van Schaik.


3 The facts

3.1
The minor 's mother and father , father (hereafter jointly: parents ) were married from 1 March 2000 to 20 November 2002. From this relationship - as far as relevant here - the minor was born in 2003.

the minor has been placed in custody since 3 March 2006 and has since stayed at the ASVZ institution to take place.


3.2
From the relationship of the mother and the father were born further:

- child A, in 1997;

- child B, in 1998;

- child C, in 2000;

- child D, in 2002;

- child E, in 2006 (hereinafter collectively: the other children ).


3.3
By order of 7 October 2009 of the Amsterdam District Court, the mother was relieved of custody of the minor . The (legal predecessor of) Youth Protection Region Amsterdam is charged with guardianship over the minor , to be carried out by the GI. The authority of the parents over the other children has also been terminated by this decision.


3.4
By order of 4 February 2015 of the Amsterdam District Court it has been determined - insofar as relevant - that the mother and the minor will have intercourse for a day every three months at a location to be determined by the GI together with the permanent supervisor of the minor , where the objective is to increase contact if it went well over a longer period of time. This regulation was ratified by order of this court of 15 December 2015.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision amended the decision of the court of 4 February 2015 and granted the GI 's request for termination of the access arrangement .


4.2
The mother requests that the contested decision be annulled and that the application for termination of the access arrangement was (still) rejected as yet.


4.3
The GI requests the dismissal of the action brought by the mother and the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
At the discretion of the court, it is up to you whether the access arrangement was rightly stopped.


5.2
A child has the right to associate with his parents and with the person who has a close personal relationship with him. This right is, as regards not the authority responsible parent and the person in a close personal relationship with the child is guaranteed by Article 8 European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) and Article 1: 377a paragraph 1 Civil Code (BW) and, as far as the child is concerned, not only by the latter provision, but also by Article 9, paragraph 3, International Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and Article 24, paragraph 3, Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. The judge cannot agree with itcustody of a parent charged with custody may only be denied the right to interact with the child on the grounds listed in article 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code.


5.3
Under Article 1: 377a paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), the court denied the right of association only if:

a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of the child , or

b. the parent or the person in close personal relationship with the child must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or

c. the child who is twelve years of age or older , during his hearing of serious objections to dealing with his parent or with the person with whom he has a close personal relationship, or

d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.4
The mother cannot agree with the decision whose appeal is based on the following.

The court wrongly ignored the interests of the mother and the minor to have contact with each other. The objections mentioned in the contested decision are sufficiently serious for the association to deny. the minor is a vulnerable girl and is in a loyalty conflict . The court has insufficiently substantiated why it is not possible to calmly build up a relationship . There has been no contact between the mother and the minor for a long time and in 2019 only once, due to maternal health. She has had physical pains for a long time that limit her physically. In addition, she had a stroke at the beginning of 2019 and she relives her children 's out-of- home placements every day . She now visits a psychologist every week and receives help from the social neighborhood team. She has also requested special transport with which she can be transported to the location where the intercourse takes place. Lawyer mother prepared in consultation with the social neighborhood team guidance on the handling set up to.

Every Tuesday evening the minor and the mother speak by telephone. During these calls saying the minor to the mother that she gladly dealings are with her wants. For a balanced development of identity, the mother considers it to be in the interests of the minor that they get to know each other further. The mother wants to be there for the minor , but her physical and mental health are now getting in the way of dealing . Ratification of the contested decision may have an adverse effect when handlingnot now but in the future. Because she is currently unable or hardly able to give substance to intercourse , she requests at least an access arrangement on paper, according to the mother .


5.5
The GI defends itself as follows.

the minor has been hurt in the past by contacts with the mother, which has led her to experience it as negative. As a result, it is important to build up the contact in small steps and the initiative for this should lie with the minor , so that she does not feel forced and will not be transferred. Since the minor is a need to have her mother to see a visitation set in which the mother and the minor see each other every six weeks, sometimes in residence mother and the other time in the group whereminor lives. One time of intercourse took place in February 2019 . The mother and the minor enjoyed seeing each other. Since then, however, no more contact has taken place and call moments often unexpectedly did not go ahead due to the mother 's health problems . Every time an appointment is canceled, it is a disappointment for the minor and brings uncertainty. the minor has an intellectual disability that prevents her from organizing her day, she is very loyal and cannot say no. In addition, she has an attachment disorder that makes it difficult for her to trust others. The unpredictability, instability and discontinuity, which the health problems of the mother entail in the conduct of intercourse , are therefore not good for the (further) development of the minor .

The mother is advised to follow psycho-education at ASVZ so that she learns about the development and functioning of the minor and can better connect with her. The GI is pleased to hear that the mother receives help from the neighborhood team. As the minor wants to be in contact with the mother , the GI hopes that the previously agreed access arrangement can start in the long term with support from the neighborhood team. However, as long as the mother keeps her current health problems, that is not feasible. The GI At the appeal court, the Court of Appeal asked for a decision that the Court of Appeal considered correct.


5.6
The Board hearing appeals advised the association in a peaceful manner and tailored to the capabilities of the minor building. With the current unpredictability of the interaction moments in connection with the health problems of the mother , however, the council can imagine that establishing a visitation arrangement is not in the best interests of the minor .


5.7
The court considers as follows.

The following emerged from the documents and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal.

Following the order of the court of 4 February 2015, the mother and the minor saw each other three times in the subsequent period, the last time was in the summer of 2016. During this period, the mother was unable to travel by train and she was picked up by the GI for the intercourse moments . All three intercourse moments did not go smoothly because the mother entered into a discussion with the intercourse supervisor and the GI in the presence of the minor . In addition, she put pressure on the minor by asking her about unpleasant situations. Eventually has minor declared no longer dealing wanting the mother . When the mother did not want to discuss this with the GI, the GI requested termination of the access arrangement . The court then appointed a guardian ad litem to investigate what the minor wants and what is most in her interest. The guardian ad litem has, after the minor and the motherhaving spoken, concluded in her report of 22 September 2017 that the minor was not open to intercourse and that it was therefore not in her interest.

Afterwards, namely from November 2018, it became apparent that the minor did need contact with the mother and, at the beginning of 2019, an access arrangement was set up in consultation with the GI whereby the minor and the mother would see each other every six weeks, once in their place of residence mother and the other time to the group where the minor lives. On the occasion of the appeal hearing of 23 October 2019, however, it turned out that after the first intercourse on 26 February 2019, no intercoursemore occurred in connection with the physical and mental health problems of the mother . Despite her weekly visits to a psychologist and social assistance from the district team, the mother , has declared itself to it, because of the pain and trauma at present incapable of handling .


5.8
In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the access arrangement has been terminated on the correct grounds. As a result of the aforementioned health complaints, the mother has been unable to implement an access arrangement with the minor for some time . The past year has therefore shown that, despite the desire of all involved, the establishment of a structural access arrangement , whereby it is clear and predictable for the minor when she will see the mother , is impossible. After the first appeal session, only one time for dealing has taken placeoccurred; the other contact moments have not been able to take place for the reasons mentioned. It appears from the documents and the handling of the case at the hearing on appeal that a positive change cannot be expected in the short term. The only record of a visitation on paper, as the mother is requested, the court does not consider the interests of the minor are false hopes this will awaken and every time it will be a disappointment if the deal falls through. the minor has, partly in view of her disability, her vulnerability and the precarious relationship with the mother, an interest in structural, predictable, sustainable and consistent contact. It is therefore not in the best interests of the minor to establish a visitation arrangement that cannot be implemented, despite all good intentions from the mother . In view of all the facts and circumstances, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that establishing an access arrangement is currently contrary to the minor interests of the minor . The Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.


5.9
The Court of Appeal found that the telephone contact between the mother and the minor goes well every Tuesday evening and is good for both. The court trusts that the GI is able to continue these as long as the call contacts are in the interests of the minor .


5.10
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal is made;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by MT Hoogland, AN van de Beek, and AR van Wieren, in the presence of WJ Boon, as clerk, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on 17 December 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 4628