Content indication
Child-friendly explanation of the reason for the supervision order .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-08-08
Publication date
2019-08-13
Case number
200.257.420 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.257.420 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 18/189117 / JE RK 18-892)

decision of 8 August 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

GB de Jong, lawyer in Hoogezand, lawyer,

and

the child protection council ,

Northern Netherlands region, Groningen location,

respondent on appeal,

to be referred to as: the council ,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: HGE Klatter in Veendam.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the certified institution

Stichting Jeugdbescherming Noord and Veilig Thuis Groningen,

office in Groningen,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the order of the juvenile judge in the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of January 22, 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

2. The appeal proceedings


2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 4 April 2019;

- the father 's statement of defense with production (s);

- a letter from the GI of 15 April 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. De Jong of 19 April 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. De Jong of 23 April 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from the Council of 30 April 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from the GI of 2 May 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. De Jong of 25 June 2019 with production (s);

- a fax message from mr. De Jong of 11 July 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. De Jong of 17 July 2019 with production (s).


2.2
On 18 July 2019, the minor to be announced below appeared, who was heard by the court in the absence of parties and interested parties.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 18 July 2019. The mother appeared in person, assisted by her lawyer. Mrs. C appeared on behalf of the council . The father has also appeared, assisted by his lawyer. Mrs D (family guardian) appeared on behalf of the GI . Mr. De Jong spoke at the hearing on the basis of the pleadings submitted by him.


3 The facts

3.1
From - through divorce dissolved - marriage of the mother and the father (also referred to as the parents ) were born:

- the adult E, born in 1994 (hereinafter referred to as: E);

- the adult F, born in 1999 (hereinafter referred to as: F);

- the minor the minor , born in 2005 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ).

The parents are jointly responsible for custody of the minor . Since the breakup of the parents in early 2017, the minor has been living with the mother .


3.2
With regard to the minor , there has been a (provisional) supervision order from 24 July 2017 to 10 October 2018 . Since the term of this supervision order has not been extended on time, the term has expired unintentionally. By petition, received at the court on December 21, 2018, the council again requested that the minor be placed under supervision .


3.3
In the contested decision, declared enforceable in stock, of 22 January 2019, the juvenile court judge placed the minor under the supervision of the GI from 22 January 2019 to 22 January 2020.


3.4
By order of 28 May 2019, the court:

- the minor 's principal residence determined by the mother ;

- understand that the parties have agreed that they will comply with the settlement agreement of 17 May 2019;

- the decision with regard to the care and contact arrangement has been retained and the GI has been given the opportunity to report on the progress of the minor 's supervision .


3.5
the minor has no contact with the father at this time .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The mother appealed against the decision of 22 January 2019. She requests the Court - as the Court understands - to annul the contested decision and to again correctly reject the preliminary request by the Council for the minor's supervision of the minor .


4.2
The council submitted a defense at the hearing and requests the court to ratify the contested decision.


4.3
The father has put forward a defense and requests the court to ratify the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision
The supervision order


5.1
The court may a 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW): Pursuant to Article 1 minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
From the documents, including the council report of 18 December 2018, as corrected by the report of 26 March 2019, and the proceedings at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has shown that there are serious system, divorce, loyalty and personal problems. There is a continuing struggle between the parents and a seriously disturbed relationship. the minor has been burdened with system and divorce issues for several years: she is frequently confronted with and involved in the ongoing struggle and the conflicts in the home situation between the various family members. In addition, the parents - even before the divorce- not in line with the upbringing of the children . Because of this situation, the minor has become trapped between her parents and, like her brother and sister, she is forced to choose one of the parents . As a result, various camps have been created in recent years.

At the end of 2016, the minor was diagnosed with PTSD and serious system problems were identified. As a result of these problems at home, the minor worries, fears, stress , weight problems, insomnia and loyalty problems developed . Moreover, she avoids contact with the father .

In addition, minor statements were recently made that led to suspicion of sexually transcending behavior by the father . After this, contact with the father was (again) stopped.

After the divorce of the parents , the aforementioned (system) problems were further hardened . The parents are seized by their own (divorce) problems, as a result of which they are unable to put the minor 's interests first. At the hearing on appeal it became apparent that even after the decision of 28 May 2019, in which it was stated that the parents had reached an agreement on the settlement of the division of the matrimonial property community , there was still conflict between the parents . They are insufficiently able to communicate with each other adequatelyand start a conversation about the care and upbringing of the minor .

The minor therefore has long been lacking in stability, peace, safety and predictability and it is not possible for her to have untaxed contact with both parents . Because of this she cannot grow up safely.

At the hearing, the Council further explained that, due to the aforementioned problems, the minor is insufficiently able to cope with her own development . It must be safeguarded from the problems of the parents . Moreover, a child should feel safe in his home situation; however, the minor seems to feel safe only at school. The mother argued at the hearing that the divorce issue is not being discussed at her home . The court is convinced that - even if the mother does not talk about the father at home - the anger and frustrationfrom the mother towards the father , as it appears from the documents and the court has experienced at the hearing, is felt by the minor . This is very harmful to the development of the minor . in this situation, the minor can only choose the safest way by adopting the mother 's opinion about the father . Because of this she does not get the space to form her own image about the father .

Given the above, the court finds that the minor serious in its (social-emotional) development is threatened .


5.3
The Court of Appeal considers it necessary that aid is deployed from a mandatory framework to remove the development threats. Despite the use of various forms of assistance (including Intensive Psychiatric Family Treatment (IPG) and trauma and creative therapy for the minor ), the situation has remained unchanged. The parents have not been sufficiently able to remove the aforementioned development threats from the minor and to accept assistance for this. They do not always seem to see the necessity and usefulness of assistance . Moreover, the previously deployedassistance stagnated because the mother refused or could not cooperate or because the assistance was prematurely terminated by the mother . In the opinion of the Court of Appeal there is therefore a well-founded fear that the assistance will stagnate in a voluntary framework, or at least be insufficient. The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that being placed under supervision is necessary in order to be able to guarantee the deployment and continuity of the assistance deemed necessary and the interests of the minor : the family guardian can then keep an eye on or the assistanceis accepted, continued and completed with a positive result. The court of appeal ignores the mother 's assertion that system therapy did not get off the ground either during supervision , now that the GI has contradicted this and has explained that system therapy has not proved suitable for this family at this time.

In addition, the Court of Appeal considers it important that , as far as possible, as far as possible, the minor 's statements about sexual behavior by the father are objectified in the context of the custody , so that it becomes clear whether, and if so how, the care should be provided picked up and whether there are possibilities for contact recovery between the minor and the father . The court does not follow the mother in her opinion that the minor must be left alone and waited until she herself indicates that she is in contact with thefather wants and / or wants help: given the age of the minor and the circumstance that she is (possibly) influenced by the mother , it is important that the counseling looks at what should happen in this case. Rest in a situation like this is only superficial appearance, which only makes the final situation more serious .

To the extent that the mother has stated that the current guidance of family and children's coach from the Salvation Army - in addition to the assistance from the school and its network - is sufficient, the Court considers that the current (children's) coach is controlled by the family guardian , at least that the family guardian has been involved in this. The Court of Appeal does not consider it plausible that the mother will continue this guidance in a voluntary framework, now that the voluntary assistance already deployed has also (partly) stopped due to her actions or has not got off the ground.


5.4
On the basis of the above, the court, like the juvenile court judge , is of the opinion that the grounds for placing a minor under supervision are met.

Explanation for the minor


5.5
During the interview with the Court of Appeal, he asked why a request for a custodial order has been submitted (rendered concisely) . She actually doesn't feel like talking and wants peace. The court will therefore try to explain below to the minor why the court finds a custody required.


5.6
The opinion of the minor is important for the court ; she is old enough to take that into account. But the court must also take into account the views and information of others. On the basis of all information, the court of appeal must assess which decision is most in the best interests of the minor .

The court is very concerned about the situation in which the minor is. the minor is trapped between her parents . She cannot love both her parents openly and carefree . This is because the parents are unable to put the minor's interests first. They cannot talk about the minor together without blaming each other (many). The court knows that such a situation is harmful to children . Harmful to healthy development . The brother and sister of the minor have also had a very difficult time with the parents don't talk to each other.

The court understands that the minor is afraid of stress in her family. But the court looks first at what is most important to the minor . the minor comes to court as a very sad, lonely and withdrawn girl who needs help. Without a custody , the court sees a very high risk that the minor will get stuck even more between her parents . The Court of Appeal finds that this means that there is a danger to the development of the minor and that help is needed. That help must be placed under supervisionhappen and not voluntarily. This is because the court thinks that the help in a voluntary framework will not get off the ground or will be terminated too early (by the mother ). The court finds that a family guardian - that is someone who only defends the interests of the minor - should look at what the minor needs in her situation.


6 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

confirms the decision of the juvenile court in the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of January 22, 2019.

This decision was made by mrs. GM van der Meer, JDSL Bosch and IM Dölle, assisted by HB Fortuyn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 8 August 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 6474