Content indication
Denial right to association , termination joint custody .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-04-09
Publication date
2019-04-23
Case number
200.241.252 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 2233
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.241.252 / 01

Case number court: C / 15/262968 / FA RK 17-4796

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 9 April 2019 concerning

the man ,

living at home,

applicant in principal appeal,

defendant in an incidental appeal,

to be called further: the man,

lawyer: RFH Tamboenan in Rotterdam,

and

the woman ,

living at home,

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in an incidental appeal,

to be called further: the woman,

lawyer: mr. BTA Visser in Purmerend.

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location: Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Noord-Holland court (location Alkmaar) of 21 March 2018 and pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The man lodged an appeal on 11 June 2018 against the decision of 21 March 2018.


2.2
On 26 September 2018, the woman filed a statement of defense, including an incidental appeal.


2.3
On November 6, 2018, the man filed a defense against the incidental appeal.


2.4
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a journal report from the man of 15 August 2018 with appendices, received on 16 August 2018;

- a journal report from the woman of 21 February 2019 with an attachment, received on 21 February 2019.


2.5
The minor Y (hereafter: the minor ) was given the opportunity to express her opinion. She did not use that.


2.6
The oral hearing took place on 22 February 2019. Appeared are:

- the man, assisted by his lawyer;

- the woman assisted by her lawyer;

- the board , represented by Mr. R. Koops.


3 The facts

3.1
The (lost in 2009) relationship of husband and wife is a minor born in 2005. The man has minor acknowledged.

After their breakup, the parties drew up a parenting plan on the basis of which the minor was with the man half the time and the other half with the woman. She was registered at the man's address. In 2010, the parties were jointly charged with custody of the minor .


3.2
As a result of concerns about domestic violence and drug use by the man, the certified institution for Youth Protection Region Amsterdam (hereafter: the GI) was involved with the family since 8 November 2013. since the summer of 2015, the minor has been living completely with the woman. There was then no contact between the man and the minor .


3.3
By order of the juvenile court judge in the Noord-Holland court of 16 March 2016, the minor was placed under the supervision of the GI for a period of one year . Within the framework of this measure, an attempt was made to establish contact between the man and the minor . Unaccompanied interaction failed . The last assisted contact between the minor and the man took place on January 31, 2017.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision, in accordance with the wife's request, denied the husband the right to have contact with the minor and provided that the joint authority of the parties was terminated. The woman is also charged with the exercise of sole authority over the minor . The request of the man to determine an access arrangement between him and the minor has been rejected.


4.2
The man asks, with annulment of the contested decision, its request for a care arrangement , stating that he was the minor has with him from Friday after school until Sunday 19:00, assign, or such care arrangement to determine if the court will correct eight. Understands that the court is in the request decided to request the woman to give him the right of association to deny, reject.

He also requested that the request by the woman to terminate the joint authority be rejected.


4.3
The woman requests that the man's requests be rejected.

In an incidental appeal, she requests - in short - the man to impose an area and contact prohibition, enforceable in the event of corporal coercion, or, alternatively, a penalty payment , and to order the man to pay the costs of the proceedings.


4.4
The man requests that this incidental request from the woman be rejected.


5 The reasons for the decision
In principal higher vocati p


5.1
The man argues that there is no question of one of the grounds for refusal in Article 1: 377a of the Dutch Civil Code and that the court has wrongly rejected his request to establish a care or access arrangement . The man has gone through an intensive care process to get rid of his drug addiction. He was admitted to an observation center and then to an addiction clinic. Outpatient assistance is used on return . To date, the man is abstinent. He points out that he son his eighteen year old son from a previous relationship, to its majority the joint custody and that he with son's mother a care schemewas agreed. The GI has monitored its current family; from the relationship with his current partner a child was born in 2014 and his partner has a fifteen-year-old daughter, daughter, from a previous relationship who lives with them. The GI has concluded that there is sufficient basis for the family to continue to function independently.

In view of this, the man cannot follow the court in its opinion that there is a real risk that the minor will be exposed to (emotional) insecurity when resuming contact .

The man further states that interaction is in the best interests of the minor . He does not see why she would have insufficient capacity for this and on what the court relies on that judgment. after all, the minor has not exercised her right to speak, she has not been seen by a behavioral expert and she is no longer under supervision .

At the hearing on appeal, the man proposed to build up contact by telephone. The contact can be established under supervision , for example from his parents .

The man also disagrees with the end of the joint custody of the minor . For a long time, the concerns about the minor were that there was no interaction between her and the husband and that the husband was not involved in her life. Joint authority will on the contrary contribute to the man again playing a role in the life of the minor .


5.2
The woman disputes in the first place that the man would be free from drug use for a year. He has had several relapses and he lacks the dedication to really master his problems. He has not completed his withdrawal process and the prognosis of the GGZ intervention team is only moderately positive. Even if there were control over his drug problem, that development is too early to expose the minor to contact with the man. Moreover, the man's drug problem is not the only problem that makes the minor run the risk of being exposed to (emotional) insecurity. The man has not been sufficiently able to meet the needs of theminor ; he entrusts her with adult issues. He refuses to meet the safety condition that implies that he also accepts assistance for his emotional problems. Therefore, no diagnosis and mental health treatment took place. When the minor was staying with the man, he damaged her by neglecting her and burdening her with adult issues.

The court rightly considered that the minor does not have sufficient capacity for contact. She is doing reasonably well now, but she is vulnerable. Moreover, puberty is approaching and she is in the first year of secondary education.

Recently the man again forced a meeting with the minor by appearing at her school and sending the daughter inside to lure the minor outside. The police are involved. After this incident, the minor showed a considerable relapse.

The woman finally states that the man has never given substance to his authority . He has not even responded to the GI's offer to keep him informed about the development of the minor . The legal situation must be in accordance with the actual situation. Moreover, it is impossible for the man to make decisions in the interests of the minor .


5.3
At the hearing on appeal, the Council determined that the minor had already experienced a lot. The GI has attempted to establish contact between the minor and the man , including in the context of a custody order , but has not succeeded. the minor benefits from the current situation in which there is peace, predictability and stability. However, she cannot express her solidarity with the man whom she has not seen for a long time, but with whom she has previously stayed a lot. The intentions of the man in his action to take on the minor The school's attendance (to let her know that he loves her, as he stated at the hearing), may have been good, but that was not the case, now that it broke the peace that had been achieved.

Given the risks of contact recovery , the Council advised that the current situation should be maintained with structure, peace and stability and that the contested decision be upheld in so far as it rejected the man's request to establish access arrangements .

With regard to the termination of the joint custody , the council also recommended that the contested decision be ratified, because it is to be feared that the minor will get stuck or lost between her parents if the joint custody is maintained.


5.4
The court considers as follows. Under Article 1: 377a BW court may adopt a regulation governing the rights of , or the right to association deny, whether or not for some time.

Under Article 1: 377a paragraph 3, DCC court denies the right of association only if:

a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of

the child , or

b. the parent or the person in close personal relationship with the child must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or

c. the child who is twelve years or older , when he interrogates serious objections to interaction

with his parent or the person with whom he has a close personal relationship, or

d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.5
The documents and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal show that the minor has a taxed past. About her, care notifications were made at Veilig Thuis in 2015 when she stayed with the man for half the week; the concerns concerned the neglect of the minor by the husband and domestic violence between the husband and his then partner (s). According to the GI report of 30 January 2018, the minor was damaged in that period. As a result of the man's hard drug addiction, she was exposed to insecurity and the change of husband's partners and domestic violenceshe has lost certainties. The damage to the minor resulted in her cognitive and socio-emotional development stagnating, as was observed at school. Since mid-2015, the minor has been living with the woman completely. From the Action Plan drawn up in response to the intention of the GI to the supervision order not to prolong makes the court that the minor at school in the true course of 2016 required more support than the average student, but her (concentration ) problems then decreased.

The supervision order issued on 16 March 2016 was used, among other things, to establish a (guided) access arrangement between the minor and the man. The GI has stopped its attempts to establish contact, because the minor was having too much unrest due to interaction . After each (four-weekly) visit, she needed about a week to regulate her emotions . According to the GI , the unrest was partly caused by the fact that the man did not always honor his agreements and he charged her with statements that confused her. The man also has contact with the minor wanted when she was in a mall with her grandparents . Also recently the man made contact by appearing with his family at the minor 's school , having his partner's daughter approach the minor and wanting to hand her a letter. At the hearing on appeal, the man acknowledged that the minor panicked about his action.


5.6
With the court, the court considers it laudable that the man has taken steps to solve his problems; the treatment of his PTSD (through EMDR) has been positively completed and he has a permanent appointment. However, these developments do not automatically mean that the impediments to an access arrangement to be determined by the court have now been removed. As a result of the damage suffered by the minor in the past, it is important, as stated by the Council , that the peace, stability and structure that she now experiences are maintained. It is very likely that it is now mandatory to establish contactwill again cause a great deal of unrest and, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, will result in serious disadvantage for the development of the minor . the minor is still - the court would refer to that conversation , insufficient successful supervision order and the reaction of the minor after the unannounced appearance of the man at school - to get the time and rest to recover from the turmoil in her life from (at least) 2009, when her parents separated, until 2015, when she went to live fully with the woman. That is all the more true nowminor is in a phase of life in which a lot comes to her; she is in first class and puberty is coming.

This does not alter the fact that it is important for the development of the identity of the minor that, over time, she can supplement and / or adjust her image of the man. The Court of Appeal will uphold the decision appealed to the extent that the husband was thereby denied his right to interact with the minor and his request to establish access arrangements was rejected, but suggested that the wife continue to look for ways to treat the husband. and to keep the minor informed (or have each other informed) of how each of them is doing, perhaps in writing.


5.7
The Court of Appeal will also ratify the decision whose appeal has been made insofar as it involves the joint authority of the parties over the minor on the basis of art. 1: 253 n yo art. 1: 253a, paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code has been terminated. With the council , the court considers the risk that the minor would get stuck or lost between her parents if the joint authority continues unacceptably high.

Not only have parties been out of contact with each other for some time, but there is also insufficient confidence. Given the developments that have led to the damage to the minor , as discussed above, as well as the unsuccessful attempts to establish contact between the minor and the male and the role of the male therein, the court rightly considered that currently no the woman can be required to make decisions of any importance regarding the minor jointly with the man. The parties can therefore not be deemed sufficiently capable of giving substance to the joint authority in a manner that will not be detrimental to theminor .

In an incidental appeal


5.8
In her incidental appeal, the woman has demanded an area and contact ban . However, the claim cannot be made in a petition procedure such as the present one. The court will therefore declare the woman inadmissible in her request. There is no place in this outcome of the proceedings for an order for costs such as that requested by the woman.


5.9
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

In principal appeal

ratifies the decision whose appeal is made;

In an incidental appeal

declares the woman inadmissible in her request.

This decision was made by AN van de Beek, JMC Louwinger-Rijk and JA van Keulen, assisted by FJE van Geijn, as clerk and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 9 April 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 1234