Content indication
Authority , principal residence , contact and change of surname. Continued struggle between the parents leads to a one-sided authority and principal residence with the father . Messages from mother are threatening and disqualify the educators and are not appropriate towards the child . Child (of 17) does not want to have contact . Now that authority is no longer with the mother , her permission to submit the request for a change of surname to the King is not necessary.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-01-29
Publication date
2019-02-06
Case number
200.245.711 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.245.711 / 01

(Case number Court of the Central Netherlands, location Lelystad C / 16/457450 / FL RK 18-646)

decision of 29 January 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: RFP Scheele in Rotterdam,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: JM Wigman in The Hague.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Central Netherlands court, location Lelystad (hereinafter: the court), of 1 June 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 31 August 2018;

- the defense with production (s).


2.2
The minor the minor (hereafter: the minor ) was given the opportunity to make his opinion known with regard to the request, but indicated in his letter, which the court received on 18 December 2018, that he did not want to make use of it.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 17 December 2018. Parties have appeared, assisted by their lawyers. Mr. Scheele has submitted his pleadings and at the request of the court the official report of the session of the court.


3 The facts

3.1
Parties are the parents of the minor , born in 2001. The minor has lived with the mother until 2012 and has lived with the father ever since .


3.2
By order of 31 July 2014 from the Rotterdam District Court, the parties were jointly charged with custody of the minor , the minor was placed under the supervision of the Rotterdam Youth Regional Office, for a period of one year, the minor 's principal residence was determined by the father and is a care arrangement between the parent and the minor identified.


3.3
The supervision order has been extended once for the duration of one year.


3.4
By judgment in interlocutory proceedings of the court of 18 April 2018, the mother 's claim for - inter alia - compliance with the care scheme as laid down in the decision of 31 July 2014 of the Rotterdam District Court was rejected and the enforcement of that decision in so far as it the care arrangement between the parent and the minor concerned suspended.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
By the contested decision of June 1, 2018 stipulates that the authority over the minor now only the father is entitled, is the mother of the interaction with the minor denied and is the father granted the permission to apply for a change of surname of the minor . The mother 's request to issue a six-month custodial order has been rejected, as well as her request to have custody alone and the minor 's principal residence to be determined by her.


4.2
The mother lodged an appeal with four complaints concerning the decision of 1 June 2018. These complaints are intended to raise the dispute in full on appeal. The mother requests that this decision be annulled and after reassessment of the case still grant her requests from the first instance, or decide as the court of justice considers correct.


4.3
The father puts forward a defense and requests that the contested decision be ratified and also requests that provision be made for Mr Scheele to at least pay the mother the costs of € 3,200, at least on an amount to be determined by the court, enforceable in stock and provide that the mother may no longer institute proceedings against the father and the minor , at least as long as the minor is a minor .


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The court will first discuss the issue of custody and the principal residence of the minor , then the request for supervision of the minor , the interaction between the mother and the minor , the change of surname, the provision desired by the father that the mother should stop proceedings and finally the legal costs order requested by the father .


5.2
Unlike the mother , the court considers itself sufficiently informed on the basis of the documents and the oral procedure to be able to take a responsible decision, so that there is no reason to order a further investigation .

Authority and principal residence


5.3
Until the contested decision, the parents jointly had parental authority over the minor .


5.4
Pursuant to Section 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may, at the request of the parents who are not married to each other or of one of them, terminate the joint custody if afterwards the circumstances have changed or the decision on the basis of which the joint authority arose incorrect or incomplete data. The judge can then determine that custody of a child belongs to one of them if:

there is an unacceptable risk that the child would become trapped or lost between the parents and that it would not be expected that sufficient improvement would be achieved within the foreseeable future, or b. a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child .


5.5
That there are changed circumstances is not in dispute.


5.6
After its own investigation , the Court of Appeal reaches the same judgment as the court, namely that there is an unacceptable risk of joint custody that the minor gets stuck or lost between parties, that sufficient improvement cannot be expected within the foreseeable future and that the father , whose minor has been living since 2012 and who is taking care of him, from now on only be in charge of the authority over the minor . It is the struggle between the parents that makes them unable to exercise parental authority together . From necessity to the minor Changing parenting situation has not been found at all. The Court of Appeal takes the following into account. The mother states that the court has wrongly not investigated whether the minor is really doing as well as the father says, now that he is not allowed to see his mother and that it is harmful. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there are concerns about the minor because his parents are fighting, his mother entrusts him with this and he suffers from it, but there have been no concerns about the father 's upbringing situation. The mother blames the father for being theminor deliberately keeps away from her and handling hinders that the father of the minor from her and he alienates the minor has been indoctrinated for years, making him only parrots what his father stated. The Court of Appeal finds that all these propositions of the mother find no support in the documents and completely ignore her own share in the situation that has arisen. Other concerns about the father have not been further specified by the mother .

The Court of Appeal also endorses the considerations of the court as set out in the last paragraph of page 3 and in the first three paragraphs of page 4 of the contested decision. The court takes over those considerations and makes them his own. The Court of Appeal added that recent e-mails from the mother were also brought into the proceedings in these proceedings, which were also addressed to the minor . The mother told the court that she wrote the e-mails emotionally and that the minor must know what the truth is, but that does not alter the fact - apart from which truth the mother- the content is completely unacceptable and harmful to the minor . The messages from the mother are threatening and disqualify the father and his partner, while the further content is not appropriate towards a (own) child . With these e-mails the mother again ignores the impact of her messages on the minor (and the father ), who has already had a lot to endure. This can be blamed on the mother , all the more so since she has been pointed out earlier that such actions are harmful to the minor .

The lack of insight into her behavior and its impact on the minor contradicts the mother 's statement that she is able (alone or together with the father ) to make choices - let alone make important decisions - that are in the interest of of the minor . The Court of Appeal will therefore uphold the decision of the court to only charge the father with the authority and to reject the requested change to the main residence .

Supervision


5.7
The mother has requested that the minor be placed under supervision to restore contact between her and the minor . If that is not possible in a voluntary framework, this must be forced, according to the mother . After its own investigation , the Court of Appeal reaches the same conclusion as the Court, which means that this request by the mother must be rejected. The Court of Appeal agrees with the considerations of the court as set out in the last two paragraphs of page 4 and the first two paragraphs of page 5 of the contested decision. The court of appeal takes over after its own investigation and makes it its own. The forced framework of thesupervision has been tried before but has not led to the desired result. Together with the court, the court does not expect that a new supervision order can solve the problems within the foreseeable future. The mother should consult with herself and be aware that the minor is now seventeen years old.

Dealing


5.8
The judge denied the deal only if:

a. interaction would seriously harm the mental or physical development of

the child , or b. the parent must be deemed unsuitable or apparently unable to interact , or c. the child who is twelve years or older , when he interrogates serious objections to interaction

has shown with his parent , or d. handling is otherwise contrary to the child's compelling interests .


5.9
Like the court, the Court of Appeal considers that an imposed access arrangement between the mother and the now seventeen-year-old minor is in conflict with his weighty interests. After its own investigation , the court endorses the considerations of the court as set out in the last two paragraphs of page 5 and the first two of page 6 of the contested decision, adopts them and makes them its own. Contrary to what the mother asserts at the hearing of the court, it is not the case that nothing has been done to make contact between her and the minor possible. So does the supervision order, in which an attempt was made to restore contact in a forced context, did not lead to the desired result. A guardian ad litem has also investigated whether contact could be restored and whether and, if so, what assistance was provided for the minor , and the Child Protection Board was involved.

Genus name change


5.10
The court also has the question of whether the father should be given substitute permission to submit a petition on behalf of the minor to change the minor 's current generic name , that of the mother , being the applicant, to that of the father , being the defendant.


5.11
Pursuant to Section 1: 7 of the Dutch Civil Code, the family name of a person can be changed by the King at his request or at the request of his legal representative. Pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 1, preamble and under a of the Genre Name Change Decree (hereinafter: the Decree) , the genus name of the minor can a minor of twelve years of age or older is changed to the family name of the parent whose name the child does not have, if this parent after the dissolution of the marriageor the termination of the extra-marital society with the other parent for at least three years immediately prior to the request has cared for and raised the minor . Both the legal representative and the person whose family name is requested for the minor is the father here . Unlike the court, the court of appeal will not assess the father 's request for substitute permission to submit such a request to the King on the basis of article 1: 253a paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, as this relates to disputes over joint exercise of authority and there is out of the question. Cooperation or permission from themother is not required when submitting the request, while the substantive test or the family name can be changed with the King. The opinion of the minor and the question whether he can oversee the consequences of his choice therefore does not require further investigation in these proceedings at the court, contrary to what the mother advocates .


5.12
Now that the mother 's permission to submit the request for a surname change to the King is not necessary, the father 's request is superfluous. The Court of Appeal will therefore annul the contested decision on this point and still reject the request.

Procedure stop


5.13
The father 's request to the court to determine that the mother may no longer institute proceedings against him and the minor , at least as long as the minor is a minor , finds no legal support and will therefore reject the court.

Legal costs order


5.14
In a case such as this, where the dispute concerns the child of the parties, it is customary for the costs of the appeal proceedings to be offset in the sense that each party bears its own costs. The Court of Appeal does not see that the father - who himself started the proceedings at first instance - with regard to the costs of proceedings, has reason to deviate from the usual starting point. The court will therefore reject the father 's request to order the mother to pay the costs.


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered the court, the contested decision, endorse as far as the decisions on parental responsibility , the main residence , the supervision order and handling concerns, and destroy as far as the substitute consent to a request genus name change that reject the request and also reject the other requests.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the juvenile court in the court of Central Netherlands, location Lelystad, of 1 June 2018, insofar as it concerns the decision on parental authority over the minor the minor , born in 2001 and the decisions about his principal residence , the supervision and the relationship between him and the mother ;

annul that decision in so far as it concerns the decision on the change of surname and reject the request for replacement permission to submit a request for a change of surname;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. EBEM Rikaart-Gerard, IA Vermeulen and JL Roubos, assisted by mr. ELK Bijma as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 29 January 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 1002