Content indication
The Court considers it necessary to extend supervision and removal from the hospital . The GI has looked sufficiently and energetically at the possibilities to place the child with one of the parents after the child , less than a month old, has been placed from home. The parents have major socio-economic limitations that stand in the way of home placement.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-16
Publication date
2019-05-28
Case number
200,253,299 / 01 and 200,253,792 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case numbers court of appeal 200,253,299 / 01 and 200,253,792 / 01

(Case number Court C / 18/185594 / JE RK 18-482)

decision of 16 May 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A,

applicant on appeal and defendant in the incidental appeal (200.253.299 / 01),

respondent on appeal (200.253.792 / 01),

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: A. Mulder in Groningen, the Netherlands,

and

applicant,

residing in B, the applicant on appeal (200.253.792 / 01),

the defendant on appeal and the applicant on an incidental appeal (200.253.299 / 01),

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: S. Mangal in Lelystad,

and

the certified institution

William Schrikker Foundation Youth Protection & Youth Probation ,

Based in Amsterdam,

the defendant on appeal in both cases,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following are considered as other stakeholders in both cases:

the foster parents of the minor1,

living at a secret address,

to be called: the foster parents .


1 The proceedings at first instance
In both cases

For the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the orders of the juvenile court judge of the Noord-Nederland District Court, location Groningen (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ), of 28 August 2018 and 1 November 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number of the court (C / 18/185594 / JE RK 18-482).


2 The appeal proceedings
In the case with case number 200.253.299 / 01


2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal of the father with production (s), received on January 22, 2019;

- the statement of defense also occasionally appeals from the mother with production (s);

- the statement of defense of the GI with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Mulder of 25 February 2019 with production (s),

- a letter from the minor 's foster parents1 of 12 March 2019 stating that they will not be present at the session of 4 April 2019.

In the case with case number 200.253.792 / 01


2.2
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal of the mother with production (s), received on January 30, 2019;

- the statement of defense of the GI with production (s);

- the father 's statement of defense with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Mangal of 5 March 2019 with production (s).

In both cases


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 4 April 2019. Given the mutual coherence, the cases with numbers 200.253.299 / 01 and 200.253.792 / 01 were dealt with simultaneously. The parents appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. On behalf of the GI , Mrs C and Mr D, the youth care workers, appeared . Also with the permission of the court as a listener, there was a counselor , being the personal counselor of father , Mr. E.


3 The facts

3.1
From the now broken relationship between the father and mother is in

2017 in B the minor1 (hereinafter referred to as: the minor1) born. The mother legally enjoyed parental authority over the minor1.


3.2
the minor1 lived for a few weeks after being born in a hospital with the mother in F, an assisted living institution . the minor1 has been under supervision since 5 September 2017 and he has been placed from home with the authorization of the juvenile judge from 13 September 2017 . He was less than a month old at the time and he has been living with the foster parents for a short period after that . The father is from mid January 2018 also with the authority responsible for the minderjarige1.


3.3
The juvenile court has always extended custody and the authorization for out-of- home placement of the minor1 , most recently until 5 September 2019.


3.4
At the request of the GI (October 2017), G, health psychologist at H, carried out research into the person and parenting skills of the mother , as well as the father to, where relevant, the perspective of the minor1 determine. The I report on the father with regard to the minor1 dates from 2 August 2018. The I report on the mother dates from 6 August 2018.


3.5
The GI has (in addition) registered the mother (December 2017) for a treatment process at GGZ Drenthe, Expertise center for treatment and assessment of parenthood and psychiatry , J. J has written down his findings and an overview of the course of the mother 's treatment process in a letter of 5 October 2018.


3.6
The mother has a daughter from another relationship, namely: the minor2 (hereinafter: the minor2) born in 2012. In July 2017, in connection with the birth of the minor1, the minor2 went to live with family in a voluntary framework. the minor 2 and the minor 1 have been placed under supervision at the same time and the minor 2 has since been placed out of the house with the authorization of the juvenile court judge . She has been living with her biological father 's parents since July 2017, except for a few months .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The extension of the supervision order and the authorization to place the minor out of home1 is in dispute .

In the case with case number 200.253.299 / 01


4.2
The father appealed against the decision of 1 November 2018 with two complaints. The father has no objection to being placed under supervision ; his grievances relate to the (extended) authorization to place the minor out of home1. The father wants to take care of the care and upbringing of the minor1 immediately or (alternatively) after further investigation or on the basis of gradualness. The father requests the court (as the court understands :) to annul the contested decision to that extent and again doing justice to the introductory request by the GI for the extension of the authorization for out-of- home placement of the minor1 for the period from 5 November 2018.


4.3
The mother lodged a defense and also lodged an incidental appeal. The mother also asks the court to annul the contested decision and

primarily to grant one or more requests as stated in its appeal under case number 200.253.792 / 01. In the alternative, the mother requests that the requests of the father in the appeal be granted and, in the further alternative, that the court understands that work is being done towards a network placement, namely with the paternal grandmother1 of the minor .


4.4
The GI has submitted a defense and requested that the decision of which an appeal be upheld.

In the case with case number 200.253.792 / 01


4.5
The mother lodged an appeal with five complaints concerning the decisions of 28 August 2018 and 1 November 2019. These complaints seek to raise the full appeal of the dispute on appeal. In short, the complaints refer to the grounds for the extension of the custodial supervision and the authorization to detention , in which in particular (the investigation into) the parenting capacities of the mother and the perspective of the minor1 were discussed . The mother wants to take care of the care and upbringing of the minor1 herself and is willing to accept assistance in the voluntary framework.

The mother requests that the decisions of 28 August 2018 and 1 November 2018 be annulled and again doing the following:

I. (primarily) rejection of the requests for the extension of the supervision order and the authorization of out-of- home placement with regard to the minor1;

II. (alternatively) rejection of that request for extension of the out-of- home placement authorization with regard to the minor1;

III. (more in the alternative) to recommend the G1 to immediately register the mother for the counseling process at J and, if admission of mother and the minor1 is involved, to determine that the out-of- home placement authorization will still end.

In addition, the mother requests to hear witnesses:

- the council investigator , Mrs. K and the behavioral expert, Mrs. L

- and also the peripatetic family counselor and family coach involved in the collaboration weeks J at the mother .


4.6
The father has put up a defense. He requests the court

I. annul the contested decision (of 1 November 2018) and

II. primarily reject the appeal of the mother , so that work can be done on placement of the minor1 with the father ,

III. alternatively, grant the appeal of the mother if the court of appeal is of the opinion that it is not possible to work towards the placement of the minor1 with the father .


4.7
The GI submitted a defense and requested that the decisions of which an appeal be upheld.


4.8
The court will jointly assess the complaints.


5 The reasons for the decision
The admissibility of the mother in the appeal


5.1
The first question to be answered in this appeal is whether there is an appeal against the decision of the juvenile court of 28 August 2018.


5.2
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the decision in question can be regarded as a partial decision, that is to say, a decision in which a part of the petition has already been expressly decided in the operative part and with which the procedure in the authority concerned. In the operative part of conscious decision, the requests are GI extension of the supervision order and authorization for court custody for the duration of the supervision order after all already allocated for a part, ie for the period until November 5, 2018. To the extent that decision a final decision. The mother was opposed to this part of this decisionhave to appeal within the applicable period of three months. Now that the mother did not do this until January 30, 2019, the mother is inadmissible in her appeal against the decisions included in the sub- decision for the extension of supervision and authorization for out-of- home placement for a period until November 5, 2018.


5.3
As the mother did appeal in time against the aforementioned decision of 1 November 2018, the court of appeal will then proceed to assess the complaints of the mother insofar as they are directed against this decision.

Legal framework


5.4
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 260, first paragraph, in connection with Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), the juvenile court judge may extend the supervision of a minor by a maximum of one year if a minor grows up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.5
Under Article 1: 265b paragraph 1 BW to juvenile court , the certified institution referred to in section 1.1 of the juvenile law, entrusted with the implementation of the supervision order , upon request, authorize the minor places from home during the day and night if necessary is in the interest of the care and upbringing of the minor or to examine his or her mental or physical condition. Pursuant to Article 1: 265c, paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, the juvenile court may, at the request of the certified institution , the council or the public prosecutor, extend the duration of the authorization toextend your out-of- home placement by a year at most.

Substantive assessment


5.6
At the discretion of the Court of Appeal is the extension of the custodial order and the authorization to place the minor out of home1 over the period from 5 November 2018 to 5 September 2019.


5.7
In an earlier decision of 3 April 2018 ( ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2018: 3225 ), the Court of Appeal explained why there are so serious concerns about the parenting situation and the personal situation of the minor1 that at that time a custody for the period of 5 September 2017 to September 5, 2018 and an authorization for his out-of- home placement for the period from September 13, 2017 to March 13, 2018 were necessary. The mother shortly after his birth, beginning in September 2017, along with the minderjarige1 been temporarily recorded in F, but the safety of the minderjarige1 the motherAt that time F could not be guaranteed, partly on the basis of the observation moments, and the minor1, when he was a few weeks old, was placed out of home in September 2017. At that time, the Court of Appeal also underlined the importance of the GI investigation into the perspective of the minor1, which was already initiated by the GI , given the very young age of the minor1 and the acceptable period within which his perspective must be clear.


5.8
The Court of Appeal finds that from the GI in the interests of the minor1, sufficient and also energetic consideration has now been given to the possibilities of placing the minor1 (back) with one of the parents . In order to gain clarity as quickly as possible about the perspective of the minor1, the GI decided at the time to have an outpatient I carried out on the pedagogical skills of the parents by H. In addition, the mother and her children are registered for a treatment program at J in M. In that context, an intake has taken place and the mother hasstayed with J from July 9 to 20, 2018 (collaboration recording). The results of the investigation as well as the findings of J are set out in detail and in detail in the contested decision of 1 November 2018, including all indications and contra-indications laid down by drs. G in her report for placement of the minor1 with the mother or father respectively . After its own investigation, the Court of Appeal refers to those considerations and accepts them here.

It is clear, which is not contradicted by the parents either, that the GI opted for an external I to be carried out by H at that time, including the mother's registration with J, due to the waiting times at J and the need to clarify as soon as possible. to get about the perspective of the minor1. The father is also involved in the I. It has been clearly communicated to the parents and also to J that the results of the investigation by H are decisive for the following steps, in short: (direct) placement of the minor1 with one of the parents , extension of the out-of- home placementand / or further investigation in J. Only if there were any doubts about the possibilities of the parents as a result of the forensic investigation would a further investigation be started in J.


5.9
With regard to the choice of the GI for an external parental investigation , the Court of Appeal considered that this decision, certainly in the given circumstances, was a sound one. Unlike the parents , the court of appeal is of the opinion that drs. G has conducted extensive and good research . For example, extensive file research has been carried out, not only have discussions been held with the parents, but also with informants and interaction observations have taken place. This led to a well-founded, expert opinion in the aforementioned reports of 2 August 2018 and 6 August 2018. In this report, drs. G, after considering the indications and contraindications that she had determined, concluded that placement of the minor1 with the father or the mother is not in the best interests of the minor1; not in the short term or in the longer term. The Court of Appeal has no reason to doubt the findings of the expert that emerged from the investigation . It then also takes over those findings after its own investigation .


5.10
As stated in paragraph 5.5 follows from Article 1: 265b paragraph 1 DCC that the juvenile court the certified institution referred to in section 1.1 of the juvenile law, which is responsible for the execution of the supervision order , may authorize, on request of the minor during the day and to place them out of the house overnight if this is necessary in the interest of the care and upbringing of the minor or to examine their mental or physical condition. In view of this, it should not only be assessed, as Drs G did, whether or not it is in the interests of the minor1 to go to one of his parents to be placed, but whether it is necessary to place him out of the house day and night.


5.11
The GI request has stated in court that there is indeed a need for home placement . As previously considered, the ambulatory parental survey conducted by drs. G is leading for the GI and the GI is of the opinion that the minor1 cannot be placed with one of the parents based on the results of this investigation . According to the GI, there is also no doubt about the parents' impossibilities and there is therefore no reason for further investigation in the form of admission to J or another counseling process.aimed at replacing the minor1 with one of the parents .


5.12
The parents disagree.

In short, the parents argue that H 's research has been (too) limited and that their parenting skills have therefore not been sufficiently investigated. According to the parents, the far-reaching conclusion should certainly not be attached to the results of this study that the perspective of the minor1 no longer lies with one of them. Possible contra-indications can be taken care of by the assistance . The parents are willing to do everything in their power to give the minor1 the opportunity to have his principal residence with one of the parents and by the parent in questionto be raised and cared for. The other parent one will access arrangements are entered.


5.13
The father states in essence that now that he initially had no authority over the minor1, he had no chance of taking care of the minor1. The father feels that he is not taken seriously as a father . He is of the opinion that insufficient attention has been paid to the perspective that he can offer the minor1. Although the report also found many positive elements, the court has erroneously stated the negative as the father says . Moreover, the father disputes the concerns expressed in the report with regard to his person. He does not recognize himself in that. The positive indications are correct according to the fatherwell. The father feels responsible for the minor1, wants to give him a better life than he had before and is willing to accept assistance . In the alternative, the father requests that the minor1 be placed back with the mother . The father is willing and able to support the mother where necessary.


5.14
The mother too is of the opinion that she has not had sufficient opportunity to take care of the minor1. The mother points out that she has complied with all G1 requests since December 2017 / early January 2018. There is good contact between the mother and the Gl. The (access) agreements are going well. According to the mother , the safety of the minor1 has never been at stake. The mother participated in the trajectories started, such as H 's research , carried out by drs. G, and the cooperation weeks of J and the mother appear on all agreements and discussions made. The motherstates that he has always been willing to accept any form of assistance and that he is still willing to do so. The mother also points out that communication between her and the father has improved.


5.15
All parties involved agree that the minor is doing well at the moment1. For example, the GI stated at the court hearing that the minor1 has developed well in the foster family in the past period . The worrying behavior that the minor1 has shown at the start of his out-of- home placement is no longer there. The situation of the minor1 has calmed down, according to the GI. The placement with the foster parents concerns prospective placement. The parents too see that the minor1 is developing well . He is cheerful during intercourse and happy to see them.


5.16
Although the court not to have doubts that the parents keep a lot of minderjarige1 the court considers that the education situation with the parents for minderjarige1 sufficiently meets the needs of the minderjarige1. The concerns that have arisen, in particular the limitation of the parents on the social-emotional level, are too great to be able to overcome them by combining a home placement with intensive guidance and professional help.


5.17
As already considered in paragraph 5.9 above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the expert has carried out very extensive and thorough research . From her profession as a health care psychologist, the expert has come to a balanced opinion about the upbringing perspective of the minor1. The findings of this expert support the necessity of placement of the minor out of home1.

With regard to the minor1, the report from drs. G - briefly stated - reveals the following: in the first weeks after his birth, the minor1 had to deal with much unrest and regularly intense emotions from his mother . It is very likely that he felt very unsafe because of this, which can largely explain that he showed tense and anxious behavior long after his placement in the foster home . In the meantime, this behavior is no longer an issue and he seems to feel safe, as long as the foster parents keep his daily life very predictable. Apparently, the minor1 can easily get out of his emotional state due to unrestbalanced. the minor1 needs a stable upbringing environment for healthy development . For him, this means continuity in the field of his primary caregivers, who can offer him a calm, relaxed approach with a lot of predictability for the time being. This calm, relaxed approach means, among other things, that his primary caregivers (and other important adults) do not burden him with their problems, sadness and other emotions .

With regard to the father, the report from drs. G shows, among other things, that F has seen that the father was careful and loving with the minor1 and in view of this the initial fear that the father had no idea what a baby needs peace and attention and how he should respond afterwards does not seem justified. However, the impression is also that the father overestimates himself in his ability to take on the full care and upbringing of the minor1. The father still has fairly intensive guidance for his own personal functioningnecessary, both in practical matters (daily structure, personal care, housekeeping, post / administration and contacts with institutions) and in his psychosocial functioning (expressing feelings in an adequate manner and insight into the consequences of certain choices). In the area of psychosocial functioning of the father , there are some concerns:

- the father can sometimes get overstimulated and then respond impulsively;

- there are concerns about the stability of a possible new relationship of the father , which jeopardizes continuity in carers for the minor1. The father will also need support for the care and upbringing of the minor1, among other things for organizing everything that must be arranged for and around the minor1. The father is open to this support and will also benefit to a certain extent. However, the question is whether this will be sufficient. Here the father appearsbe limited by his weak cognitive skills, in particular his weak processing speed and his very weak working memory. In addition to the necessary intensive parenting support, the father must also be able to rely on a strong social network. The father does not seem to have such a network .

Regarding the mother , drs. G concludes that she has difficulty with social communication / interaction and is not very flexible in her thinking and doing. It is difficult for the mother to make and maintain social contacts, even though she needs them. This can lead to feelings of loneliness and then possibly to depressive feelings. This makes the importance of targeted support great. The mother has difficulty moving into the perspective of the other. It is therefore difficult for her to imagine her children experiencing a situation differently from herself and in many cases she assumes that her childrenfeel what she feels. This implies that the mother is inclined to share her own emotions (positive and negative) with her children as if they were their emotions too, thus giving them little room to develop their own emotions . Apart from the fact that this seriously limits the children in the development of their individuality, it also easily leads to parentification and loyalty problems . All in all it puts their social development at risk. That the mother her thinking and acting is not flexible, among other things, is evident from her conviction that she is already doing everything right and from the fact that she continues to stick to her own vision and is not open to advice.

Due to the difficulty the mother has to divide her attention with many stimuli, she will soon become overburdened in the care and upbringing of two children . However, due to her tendency to focus all her care and attention on her children , placing only one child with her will make it extra difficult for this child to get space for herself. The mother does not have a social network for the minor1 in her immediate environment to which she can fall back and has always withheld support aimed at her limitations. As long as the mother if it remains of the opinion that the aforementioned restrictions do not exist, it will continue to withhold the necessary support.

Furthermore, the mother does not have a stable relationship with a partner who has her limitations

can compensate. When the mother enters into a relationship again, the necessary continuity for the children is at risk, especially when she and her new partner in education are not aligned.


5.18
To the extent that the mother has argued that she has taken care of the minor2 properly for five years, the court considers that, contrary to what the mother says, the minor2 had experienced a taxed childhood, which also led to her placement .


5.19
The mother has asked for witnesses to be heard in order to demonstrate that the counsel for the child never had in mind to mother and child separately hold and that this is indicated by the Board investigator , Mrs. K, and behavioral, Ms. L, who have been charged with the board investigations conducted in 2017. She also requested that witnesses be heard in order to demonstrate that J's evaluation report was not properly interpreted since J's employees had informed her that J's trajectory was not excluded and was still possible.

However, the court does not consider it necessary to hear witnesses, because even if these persons would explain as the mother argues, this would not lead to a different decision of the court. The offer of evidence from the mother will therefore not be accepted.


5.20
While in the evaluation report on the mother 's cooperation admission, J says that she will reconsider any future new registration for a parental treatment and assessment process from family guardians and / or the juvenile court judge , but the report mentions that it has been discussed with the mother that a critical assessment will be made at that time. Furthermore, J explicitly states that the acceptable period for the minor1 (including the mother)must be considered capable of bearing responsibility for the care and upbringing of the minor1) has already expired, so that also - as the court understands - it constitutes an obstacle to admission and parental treatment and assessment of the minor1 . In addition, good cooperation between J and the mother has not proved to be possible, which is clearly reflected in J's evaluation report on the collaboration admission, which states:There is a contact in which we do not seem to find each other well and understand what is needed to really work with you. Despite several attempts to do so, we have not succeeded in explaining this to you so that you can understand it. If you do not get clarity, this is expressed by frequently asking the same kind of questions in order to try to get that clarity. In a conversation an attempt was made to visualize it with two tracks. One track on which, for example, the family trainers are sitting and your track. And those traces do not find each other no matter how hard everyone tries this.

In view of the latter, it should be noted that J's evaluation report is in line with what is already apparent from the report of drs. G, namely that the mother is suffering from social-emotional limitations.


5.21
In view of the content of the file, the expert's report and what emerged during the oral hearing, the Court of Appeal considered that the two parents were insufficiently capable of giving the minor1 an educational climate to offer sufficient continuity and safety in its daily care and upbringing, and therefore it is necessary to assess the extension of supervision and removal from home .


5.22
The Court of Appeal finally ignores the subsidiary request made by the mother in the alternative to order a network placement on the grandmother's paternal side . Apart from the fact that it follows from the GI 's defense that the grandmother does not stand for such a placement, the court does not consider it in the best interests of the minor1 to transfer him to another foster family due to his attachment in the current foster home .


6 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal must ratify the contested decisions, insofar as subject to its judgment.


7 The decision
The court of appeal, having in the principal and the incidental appeal with case number 200.253.299 / 01 and in the appeal with case number 200.253.792 / 01:

declares the mother inadmissible in her appeal against it

the order of the juvenile court judge of the Noord-Nederland District Court, location Groningen, of 28 August 2018, insofar as the custody and the custody placement of the minor1 have been extended for the period until 5 November 2018;

endorses the decisions of the juvenile court judge of the Noord-Nederland District Court, location Groningen, of 28 August 2018 and 1 November 2018 insofar as subject to the judgment of the court of appeal;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was given by MP den Hollander, IM Dölle, and I. Weijers-van der Marck, assisted by M. Marsnerova, as clerk of the court, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the Registrar.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4290