Content indication
Ratification of the decision whose appeal. No contact arrangement with father , because at least there must be a prospect of a stable situation around the father , so that the continuity and predictability of the contact can be guaranteed. Children have not seen Father for a long time and due to a taxed past the children are particularly vulnerable. No litigation costs.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-07-09
Publication date
2019-07-30
Case number
200.250.220 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 7527
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.250.220 / 01

Case number court: C / 15/252295 / FA RK 16-7322

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 9 July 2019 on

the father ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: A. Leibbrand in Heerhugowaard, The Netherlands

and

the mother ,

residing at place of residence, municipality,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: L. Schellevis in Hoorn.

The following are considered as other stakeholders:

- A (hereinafter referred to as: child A);

- B (hereinafter referred to as: child B).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Haarlem

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Noord-Holland court, location Alkmaar (hereinafter: the court), of 29 August 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
On 26 November 2018, the father appealed against the aforementioned decision of 29 August 2018.


2.2
The mother submitted a statement of defense on 11 January 2019.


2.3
The following has also arrived at the court:

- a journal report of 11 December 2018 from the father 's side , with appendix;

- a letter from the mother of 12 June 2019, with an attachment, received on the same date.


2.4
The Court of Appeal gave the minor child A the opportunity to express its opinion. It has informed the court in writing that it does not want to use it.


2.5
The oral hearing took place on 21 June 2019. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by JJC Engels, office colleague of and acting for A. Leibbrand;

- L. Schellevis, on behalf of the mother ;

- the board , represented by Mr. R. Koops.

The mother was not present at the hearing.


3 The facts

3.1
From the marriage of the father and mother , now dissolved by divorce , were born:

- child A, in 2004, and

- child B, in 2009 (hereinafter collectively referred to as: the children ).

The children stay with the mother .


3.2
In the divorce decree of the Court of May 15, 2013 - as far as is relevant here - a care regime which established the children once a fortnight a weekend at the father stays and once a fortnight a weekday and half of all official public holidays and holidays.

No implementation has been given to this care scheme .


3.3
By order of the court of 26 July 2017, the joint custody of the parties was terminated and the mother was charged with the exercise of sole authority over the children . That decision was confirmed by this court on July 31, 2018.

In the aforementioned decision, the court also asked the council to carry out an investigation into the father 's state of mind with regard to the father's request for contact with the children and whether his performance precludes contact and if so no, under which conditions contact would be possible, viewed from the possibilities of the father . The Council issued a report and advice on 7 June 2018.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision rejected the father 's request for the adoption of an access rule and amended the decision of the court of 15 May 2013 in the sense that there will be no contact between the father and the children .


4.2
The father requests that, with the annulment of the contested decision, his introductory request be granted, in the sense that contact will soon be restored between the father and the children and the council will investigate the possibilities of contact between the father and the children .


4.3
The mother requests that the contested decision be ratified and that the father be ordered to pay the costs of these proceedings.


5 The reasons for the decision
Access arrangement


5.1
With regard to interaction in the Council report of 7 June 2018, the Council concluded that, based on the father's possibilities, any short contact with the children could be established under certain conditions. At the hearing on 16 August 2018, the council amended this advice because the father violated two of the conditions set by the council . According to the council , the events that took place during the period prior to the detention of the father can be classified as not fully cooperating with the treatment and the fatherhas also violated the condition that he would not come into contact with the police and / or the judiciary. The father was detained during the session of August 16, 2018, because he had to serve a previously imposed suspended prison sentence because of the violation of an associated special condition. The Council has concluded that there is too little stability in the situation around the father to initiate a follow-up investigation of the relationship .

The court then ruled in the contested decision that the father at least in the past period violated the condition that he cannot come into contact with the judiciary and that as a result the already narrow basis for starting contact moments with the children was canceled. . The court has agreed with the advice of the council that further investigation is not currently under consideration and has ruled that the father's request for an access arrangement should be rejected.


5.2
The father states that the court has wrongly determined that in the recent period he has violated the condition of not coming into contact with the judicial authorities. The father believes that this condition would be for future facts. The court of Noord-Holland, location Haarlem, has irrevocably decided that the father must be served four months of his previously imposed suspended prison sentence, because he allegedly violated a special condition. The father is of the opinion that in this decision the court of Haarlem wrongly ignored the advice of the probation service and disputes that he has violated a special condition as set by the council .

The father is of the opinion that the decision of the court with regard to dealing as unfounded, unfounded and in violation of the law should be annulled, now that he has not violated any conditions and the investigation of the council is still possible. The father still has the deeply cherished wish to have contact with his daughters again. The father was delighted with the council report of 7 June 2018 and agreed with the advice and the associated conditions. The father believes that it is in the interest of the children that contact recovery as soon as possiblewill take place. He wants the investigation to be continued by the council and to see whether contact is desirable from the children . According to the father , the children also want to see him again. The father first wants to calmly build up the contact by sending a card or by phone contact with the children .


5.3
The mother states that in recent years there have been demonstrably many serious incidents that have damaged the children . The father has tried to include the mother to deprive of life which he criminally convicted. In addition, the father has been (forced) admitted to GGZ several times because of his psychological problems. All this has meant that since March 2013 the father is no longer in contact with the mother and the children .

The mother is of the opinion that the violation of a special condition linked to a conditional prison sentence should also be regarded as coming into contact with the police and / or the judiciary. The father has breached the special conditions after the board examination conducted. The fact that the suspended prison sentence was imposed earlier does not change this.

The mother is also of the opinion that the earlier conclusion of the council that from the father's perspective there are possibilities for short intercourse moments (under conditions) has been taken too quickly. The research , on which that conclusion was based, was only a snapshot and it was not clear from what appeared then that the father was stable for a longer period of time.

At this state of affairs, there is currently too little stability around the father to initiate a follow-up investigation of intercourse , the mother said .


5.4
At the hearing on appeal, the Council stated that there is still a long way to go before any form of contact with the children can be envisaged and advises to ratify the contested decision. The Council does, however, point to the obligation of the mother to make every effort to inform the father about the welfare of the children .


5.5
The court rules as follows.


5.6
Pursuant to Article 1: 377e of the Civil Code (BW), the court may, at the request of the parents or of one of them or the person who is in close personal relationship with the child, make a decision regarding intercourse and a mutual decision taken by the parents change of access arrangements on the ground that afterwards the circumstances have changed or that incorrect or incomplete information was assumed when the decision was made.


5.7
It appears from the documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal that the father does not have a permanent place of residence or residence , that he has no health insurance and that (as a result) currently does not use medication. At the hearing on appeal, the father announced that he had recently been detained for five months in connection with non-compliance with a compensation measure imposed on him in a criminal case. Halfway through January 2019 the father was released again. After staying with a friend for a while, he is currently staying with the Salvation Armyin residence. He is busy applying for benefits and arranging an identity card. Although the court understands the father 's wish to have contact with his children and recognizes that this wish is deep and sincere, and although the court agrees with the father that in principle psychiatric problems do not have to stand in the way of contact , in this case the court of appeal, unlike the father , is of the opinion that the current situation of the father is an obstacle to contact with the children . Because of their taxed past and because of everything they have experienced, thechildren particularly vulnerable. This makes it all the more important that, before looking at the possibility of contact recovery, there is at least a prospect of a stable situation around the father, so that the continuity and predictability of the contact can be guaranteed, certainly now that the children can keep their father for longer. have not seen time. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there is currently no form of continuity or stability on the part of the father , so that there is no reason to have the council carry out a follow-up investigation into the possibilities (of the father ) for any form of handlingwith the children . The fact that the council initially concluded that any short contact with the children could be established under certain conditions does not change that. This advice is bypassed by the subsequent detentions of the father and his still unstable situation. The court of appeal will reject the request of the father on appeal and ratify the contested decision.

Information obligation


5.8
At the hearing, the legal obligation of the mother to ensure that the father receives the necessary information about the children was discussed. On behalf of the mother it has been pointed out that the father is unreachable for her. Now that the father 's lawyer has declared himself willing to forward this information to the father , there is nothing to prevent the mother from fulfilling this obligation. The mother 's lawyer promised to discuss this with the mother at the hearing .

Process costs


5.9
The mother requests that the father be ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings. To that end, it has stated that the father always starts proceedings and the mother has to defend himself every time. The father 's requests are briefly substantiated, so again in this procedure. The father did not provide any information about his current situation, while this procedure is about what possibilities he has for dealing . In addition, it appeared during the last session that the father was detained, or he simply did not appear at the session. He has not cooperated with his treatment and is unreachable for themother . She refers in this regard to the decision of the Leeuwarden court of 19 November 2008 (LJN: BG4803), in which there was a conviction in the costs of proceedings in a family law case.


5.10
The court looks at what the mother has adduced no reason to deviate from the principle that each party bear its own costs, given the nature of the procedure and the fact that they are former spouses. The court of appeal will therefore reject the relevant request from the mother .


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal is made;

rejects more or otherwise requested on appeal.

This decision was made by A. van Haeringen, TAM Tijhuis and LL.M.

JA van Keulen, in the presence of A. Blijleven, clerk of the court, and is up

July 9, 2019 pronounced in public by the chairman.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 2658