Content indication
The suspect was guilty of looting his ex-sister-in-law for a month. He presented himself as two other persons and sent the victim various messages via various social media.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-12-12
Publication date
2019-12-12
Case number
23-002291-17
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Criminal law
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
criminal law department

public prosecutor's office number: 23-002291-17

Date of judgment: December 12, 2019

Contradiction

Abridged judgment of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal pointed to the appeal brought against the judgment of the Amsterdam Court of 16 June 2017 in the joined criminal cases under the public prosecutor's office

13-665181-15 (hereinafter: Case A) and 13-669080-16 (hereinafter: Case B) against:

suspect ,

born in place of birth on birth day 1987,

address: address 1.

Investigation of the case
This judgment was delivered following the investigation at the hearing on appeal of

November 14, 2019 and November 28, 2019 and, in accordance with the provisions of Article 422, second paragraph, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, following the investigation at the hearing at first instance.

An appeal has been lodged on behalf of the suspect against the aforementioned judgment.

The Court of Appeal has taken cognizance of the advocate general's claim and of what has been put forward by the suspect and the counselor .

Admissibility of the suspect in the appeal
The accused was acquitted by the Amsterdam District Court of what was charged to him in case B under 1. The appeal was filed by the accused without restriction and is therefore also directed against the acquittal decision made at first instance. In view of the provisions of Article 404, paragraph 5, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the suspect cannot appeal against this decision. The Court of Appeal will therefore declare the suspect inadmissible in the appeal that has been lodged, insofar as this is directed against the acquittal given in the judgment of which the appeal was appealed.

Admissibility of the prosecution in the prosecution
The defamation of Youth Protection and / or name 1 charged in case B under 2 concerns a criminal offense. The case file does not contain a name 1 complaint and it cannot be deduced from the declaration filed by the declarant on behalf of Youth Protection that the wish to prosecute the suspect was present in name 1. The Court of Appeal therefore declares the prosecution inadmissible in the prosecution insofar as this concerns the part "and / or name 1" charged in case B under 2.

Charges
The suspect has been charged - insofar as it is still subject to a substantive judgment of the court of appeal - that:

Case A:

1. at one or more time (s) in or around the period from 01 May 2015 up to and including 5 June 2015 in Aalsmeer, at least in the Netherlands, has (consistently) deliberately and intentionally infringed the privacy of the victim 1, in any case of another, with the intention of the aforementioned victim 1, in any case to force that other to do something, not to do, to tolerate and / or to frighten, after all, he, suspect, once or more than once , posing as name 2 and / or name 3,

- the aforementioned victim 1 (a) text message (s) and / or (an) image (s) sent via Facebook messenger, including a nude photo of the suspect (suspect) and / or This is the first photo that you will not listen online. and / or We want a video of you, otherwise that photo of your sister goes online too I have exactly one photo of that jerk breasts pussy ass everything you see, you should see as proof. and / or

- the aforementioned victim 1 (a) text message (s) and / or (an) image (s) sent by SMS, among other things Did you send that virus? I still hacked your photos and your sister's cam. those photos go online unless you make a video that you finger until you cum. and / or Movie to e-mail address 1. and / or I want to fuck again. and / or If I don't get a picture of your cunt, a letter goes to name 4. and / or e-mail address 1 you have 5 minutes. and / or

- the aforementioned victim 1 (120 in one day) text message (s) and / or image (s) sent via Telegram including Hi and / or Today I saw an e-mail from your brother-in-law and / or I did not know it would look like this the hand would walk. and / or it is true that he has arranged a contact ban . and / or I just wanted to see you naked .;

2. at one or more time (s) in or around the period from 01 June 2015 to 30 June 2015 in Aalsmeer, at least in the Netherlands, (deliberately and unlawfully identifying personal data, not being biometric personal data), has used another person, namely the Facebook account of victim 1, for the purpose of concealing his or her suspects, identity or the identity of that victim 1 or abusing it , which may result in / have resulted in some disadvantage After all, he, the accused, put the Facebook account of that victim 1 (again) online and / or (subsequently) used the aforementioned Facebook account to approach women who wanted to do a photo shoot for money;

3. at one or more time (s) in or around the period from 01 April 2015 to 30 June 2015 in Aalsmeer, at least in the Netherlands, (deliberately and unlawfully identifying personal data, not being biometric personal data), has used another person, namely the Facebook Messenger account and / or the (fake) e-mail address e-mail address 2 of name 2, with the intention of concealing his, suspects, identity or the identity of that name 2 to conceal or misuse , which may have resulted in some disadvantage from that use, after all, he, the suspect, sent via Facebook Messenger and / or e-mail address 2 (sexually tinted and / or threatening ) messages as if he, the suspect, had that name 2;

4. on or about 11 May 2015 in Aalsmeer, in any case in the Netherlands, he has threatened victim 2 with openly association with violence against persons and / or property and / or with any crime against life and / or serious abuse and / or arson, after all, the suspect has intentionally added the aforementioned victim 2: The neighbor's bus at house number house number is set on fire. and / or the suspect has to leave his house or something bad will happen. Also name 5 and name 6 have to leave their house tonight. suspect must leave his house or we will set fire to his house. name 6 greetings., at least words of the same threatening nature or purport;

5. at one or more time (s) in or around the period from 21 December 2014 up to and including 22 December 2014 in Aalsmeer, at least in the Netherlands, has intentionally assaulted the honor and / or good name of victim 3 , by indicting a certain fact, with the apparent purpose of publicizing it, after all, he, the suspect, with the aforementioned purpose sent from the e-mail address: e-mail address 3 e-mails (forwarded) to different persons who are called set fire to the suspect / suspect and / or kill the suspect / suspect, at least (a) document (s) (e-mails) distributed, while the suspect knew that this charge was contrary to the truth;

6. at one or more time (s) in or around the period from 28 September 2015 up to and including 6 October 2015 in Aalsmeer, at least in the Netherlands, has intentionally assaulted the honor and / or good name of victim 4 , by indicting a certain fact, with the apparent purpose of publicizing it, after all, he, the suspect, with the aforementioned purpose, sent an e-mail to website 1 from the e-mail address: e-mail address 4 containing a text who points out that that victim 4 would threaten the suspect / suspect and his family , at least (a) document (s) (e-mails) distributed, while the suspect knew that this charged offense was / were contrary to the truth;

Case B:

2. at one or more time (s) in or around the period from January 1, 2016 to February 29, 2016 in Aalsmeer, in any case in the Netherlands, has intentionally assaulted the honor and / or the good name of the Youth Protection , by indicting (a) certain fact (s), with the apparent purpose of publicizing it, after all, he, the accused, has for the aforementioned purpose,

- placed an article on the news website 2 that had an employee of the Youth Protection Agency contacted the editors to tell them that the suspect had beaten his son half to death and / or

- filed a complaint against that name 1 with an external complaints committee because that name 1 had contacted the website website 2 and / or,

- a (handwritten) letter from Youth Protection written by name 1 forged, after all, he, the suspect, retyped that letter and / or apologized (for the fact that she had spoken with someone about the case / case of the suspect suspect) of that name 1 included, at least (a) written document (s) distributed (via the internet),

while the defendant knew that this / these charged fact (s) was / were contrary to the truth;

3. on or about April 9, 2016 in Aalsmeer, at least in the Netherlands, he used deliberately and illegally identifying personal data, namely the Facebook (Messenger) account of victim 5 under the name name 7, with the intention of , suspects, to conceal the identity or to conceal or misuse the identity of that victim , as a result of which any use may have been disadvantaged, after all, he, the suspect, has (sexually tinted and / or threatening ) messages and / or messages via Facebook (Messenger) or photos sent to name 8 (his ex-brother-in-law), as if he, the suspect, were the victim 5;

5. (the court reads, like the court, here and beyond: 4.) he intentionally at one or more times in or around the period from 20 April 2015 to 3 September 2015 in Aalsmeer, at least in the Netherlands, has assaulted the honor and / or good name of victim 6, by indicting a certain fact, with the apparent purpose of publicizing it, after all, he, the suspect, with the aforementioned purpose, in the name of that victim 6 via inter alia Facebook threats in the direction of suspect / suspect and / or name 9 and / or e-mails from the e-mail address of that victim 6 sent to acquaintances and / or employer (s) of that victim 6 including threatening texts in the direction of the suspect / suspect and / or name 9 and their families, at least (a) document (s) (messages on the internet) distributed, while the suspect knew that this charged fact was / were contrary to the truth.

Insofar as language and / or writing errors occur in the indictment, the court will read them in an improved way. The suspect is therefore not harmed in the defense.

Verdict whose appeal
The judgment whose appeal - insofar as it is substantively subject to the judgment of the court of appeal - will be set aside, because the court will make other decisions with regard to the questions of evidence, the claims of the injured parties and the imposition of a penalty than the court.

Acquittals
Case A under 2

Unlike the advocate general and the counselor , the court of appeal is of the opinion that it has not been proved legally and convincingly that what the accused in case A under 2 has been charged with. The process file contains, insofar as this relates to the part that the Facebook account in question would be used to approach women for a photo shoot in essence, only as incriminating for the suspect a statement from the victim 1 claiming that the mother of victim 1 information (by telephone) from the police. However, concrete and more specific information about this is lacking, as well as (other) proof of support.
Case A under 5

With the Advocate General and the Counselor , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has not been legally and convincingly proven what the accused in case A under 5 has been charged with. The fact that a search for the e-mail address from which the messages referred to in the indictment were allegedly sent was found in the suspect's computer does not necessarily indicate the suspect's involvement in sending those messages. Other, sufficient reasoned (supporting) evidence is missing.

Case A under 6

Unlike the advocate general and the counselor , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has not been legally and convincingly proven what the accused was charged in case A under 6, now that it has not been established with sufficient certainty that the accused has been guilty of the charged threatof victim 4. The fact that the e-mail account from which the relevant messages were sent has been entered into the suspect's computer is in itself insufficiently reasonable and there is no concrete evidence that specifically indicates the suspect's involvement in this. The fact that the suspect had (telephone) contact with victim 4 does not change that, since this also fits in with the alternative scenario outlined by the defense.

Case B under 2

With the Advocate General and the Counselor , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has not been legally and convincingly proven what the accused in case B under 2 has been charged with. The case file does not necessarily show that the honor and / or the good name of the Youth Protection has been assaulted by the charged acts now that the facts and circumstances in the indictment are focused in particular on the conduct of the accused with regard to name 1.

Case B under 4

With the Advocate General and the Counselor , the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has not been legally and convincingly proven what the defendant in case B under 4 has been charged with, since the documents in the file do not exclude the possibility that someone other than the suspect was involved in (sending) the messages referred to in the indictment.

In view of what has been considered above, the court will acquit the suspect from what is in case

A under 2, 5 and 6 and in case B under 2 and 4 have been charged.

Evidence considerations
Case A under 1 and 3

The counselor argued that the suspect should be acquitted of the charges in case A under 1 and 3 on the ground that the case file leaves room for an alternative scenario, meaning that someone other than the suspect has committed the attack and the identity fraud.

From the evidence it follows that the complainant victim 1 received many messages from 'name 3' and 'name 2' via social media in the period from 1 May 2015 to 5 June 2015.

- In the first half of the month of May in 2015, she was invited via a Facebook Messenger account in the name of name 2 to 'walk a underwear line from store'.

- Shortly afterwards she received messages from 'name 3' via Facebook Messenger, in which he always asked her for photos and told him that he could see her brother-in-law suspect naked.

- On 5 May 2015, she received 2 sexually tinted messages from the e-mail address .

- On May 16, 2015, she received a nude photo of her brother-in-law suspect, also the suspect, in the name of name 2 via the Facebook Messenger account, with the text “This is the first photo that you will not listen to online” and “We want a video yours is also your sister's photo online I have exactly one photo of that jerk breasts ass ass everything you see, you should see as proof. ”

- Around 16 May 2015, she received text messages from telephone number phone number 1, the content of which was connected to the Messenger messages she had received from 'name 2' and 'name 3', namely “Did you send that virus? ? I still hacked your photos and your sister's cam. Those photos go online unless you make a video that you finger until you cum "and" Movie to e-mail address 1 "and" I want to fuck again "and" If I don't get a photo of your cunt, a letter goes by name 4 "and" e-mail address 1 you have 5 minutes ".

- On 5 June 2015, she received about 120 messages via the Telegram application, originating from the telephone number telephone number 2 that is linked to the name name 3 within the Telegram application. These messages included, among other things: "Hi" and "I saw an email from your brother-in-law today" and "I didn't know it would get out of hand" and "is it true that he arranged a contact ban " and " I just wanted to see you naked. "

victim 1 has stated that she thinks 'name 2' and 'name 3' is one and the same person, because the chat sessions with 'name 2' and 'name 3' are one story.

name 2 has reported identity fraud. She has stated that the e-mail address e-mail address 2 does not belong to her, the name name 3 says nothing to her and she has never sent 'this kind of' messages.

The Court of Appeal deduces from the evidence concerning 'name 3' that the name 'name 3' is fictitious and that the user of telephone number 1 and the user of telephone number 2 are one and the same person.

During the search in the house of the suspect is a phone brand Samsung Galaxy GIO, found. On the basis of the 'evidence matrix' included in the means of evidence, the court of appeal comes to the conclusion that there were at least three SIM cards in this telephone, namely:

a SIM card with number telephone number 1,
a SIM card with number telephone number 2, and
a SIM card with the suspect's own mobile number, telephone number 3.
On the suspect's laptop, brand Asus, the e-mail address e-mail address 1 was found. On the personal computer of the suspect, brand RockingEagle, the (profile) photo of the Facebook account in the name of 'name 2', the (profile) photo of the Facebook account in the name of 'name 3' and the e email address email address 1 found. It has also been established in the technical investigation that both the aforementioned laptop and the PC have used the web form with the login details of email address 1 at least once.

From the foregoing, including the coherence in content and purpose of the messages that were sent from the e-mail address e-mail address 2 and by 'name 3' to victim 1 around the same period, the Court of Appeal deduced that one and the same person had sent these messages .

Furthermore, the Court of Appeal deduces from the foregoing, viewed in conjunction with the (other) means of evidence to be used, that the suspect is the person who sent these messages and the nude photo of himself to the victim 1 under the names name 2 and name 3. Among other things, he used:

the Facebook Messenger account in the name of name 2;

the Facebook Messenger account in the name of name 3;

the e-mail address e-mail address 2;

the telephone number telephone number 1 for sending the text messages;

the telephone number telephone number 2 for sending messages via Telegram.

The conclusion that the suspect, and not another, was the person who approached victim 1 all the time, is supported by the fact that the sender of the messages via the Facebook Messenger account in name 2 apparently possessed the aforementioned nude photo of the suspect . The position of the defense - that the webcam of the suspect's laptop was hacked, whereby the nude photo was taken without knowledge of the suspect and ended up on the Facebook Messenger account of name 2 - is purely speculative. The file does not contain any reference for this. The Court of Appeal points in this regard to the negative result of the investigationto hacking software on the confiscated data carriers of the suspect. Now that the alternative scenario raised by the defense has not otherwise become plausible, the Court of Appeal sets this aside.

The Court of Appeal considers that it has been proven that the suspect has approached victim 1 several times under the (false) name name 3 and the name name 2. Due to the frequency of the messages and their content, the suspect has systematically and intentionally infringed the privacy of the victim 1.

In addition, the court considers that it has been proven that the suspect has committed identity fraud against name 2. He knowingly and unknowingly used her name and other personal data and sent sexually explicit messages to victim 1, as if he were name 2. Already from the nature of the messages, namely sexually tinted, the court concludes that this has caused it some disadvantage. On top of that, name 2 has stated to the police that she felt damaged in her good name and honor.

Case A under 4

The counselor argued that the suspect should be acquitted of the case A under 4, primarily on the ground that he did not send the threatening messages and, in the alternative, because it cannot be established that the threatening words were addressed to victim 2 or that he was not it was reasonable to fear that the threat could be implemented.

From the evidence it follows that the declarant victim 2 and the suspect were living in the same street, namely at address 2. According to him, the suspect was living at number 1 and victim 2 lived at number house number and had a shop at number number 2. victim 2 was called on his home telephone on 11 May 2015 by the telephone number telephone number 1. The suspect made use of this number, as is clear from the foregoing (evidence considerations case A under 1 and 3). This phone call was a text message read by the computer and read: "The neighbor's bus on house number house number is set on fire".

From the foregoing - in particular the circumstance that the suspect's telephone number was used and he and victim were 2 neighbors - whether or not they were viewed in conjunction with the modus operandi as evidenced by the evidence for the facts A under 1 and 3 in which , just as in a later message, received by victim 2, even if the name of the suspect appears in the message), the Court of Appeal deduces that the suspect was the person who sent the message to victim's house telephone. The Court of Appeal notes that there is no solid point of reference to assume that someone else would have sent the message in question.

Furthermore, the court of appeal finds that the nature of the statement is generally suitable for causing the fear of arsoning for victim 2. After all, the message was sent to his phone and he lived by house number house number. The fact that the name of the suspect is also mentioned later in another message does not change that.

Case B under 3

Finally, the counselor argued that the suspect should be acquitted of the charges in case B under 3 on the ground that it cannot be established that the suspect was the person who sent sexually tinted messages and photos via Facebook Messenger .

From the evidence it follows that the suspect has created the Facebook account name 7. On 9 April 2016, two nude photos were sent to name 8 from that Facebook account, one of the victim's victim 5, who at that time was involved in divorce proceedings with the suspect , and one of her sister's victim 1. In the first nude photo, victim 5 recognizes himself. In the last nude photo, victim 1 recognizes herself and she had to send this photo to 'name 3' in 2015, being, as is clear from the foregoing (evidence consideration case A under 1 and 3): the suspect. Victim 1 has not sent the nude photo in question to anyone else and has never placed it himself. The suspect stated that he had this photo in his possession.

From the foregoing, the Court of Appeal deduces that the suspect was the person who sent sexual messages via Facebook Messenger and the nude photos of victim 5 and victim 1 to name 8. From the nature of these messages and the photos, the Court of Appeal deduces that victim 5 has suffered some disadvantage as a result. In addition, she has stated to the police that she felt that she was affected in her good name and honor.

The court of appeal rejects the counsel 's defenses .

Proof of declaration
The Court of Appeal considers that it has been legally and convincingly proven that the accused committed the charge in case A under 1, 3 and 4 and in case B under 3, on the understanding that:

Case A:

1. in the period from 1 May 2015 to 5 June 2015 in the Netherlands, he has systematically and intentionally infringed the privacy of victim 1, with the intention of forcing victim 1 to do something and to tolerate it, because he has , suspect, appearing more than once as name 2 and name 3,

- victim 1 sent a nude photo of himself via Facebook Messenger and the text messages You won't listen to the first photo that goes online. and We want a video of you, otherwise that photo of your sister goes online too I have exactly one photo of that jerk breasts pussy ass everything you see, you should see as proof.

and

- victim 1 text messages sent by text message Did you send that virus? I still hacked your photos and your sister's cam. Those photos go online unless you make a video that you finger until you cum. and Movie to e-mail address 1. and I want to fuck again. and If I don't get a picture of your pussy a letter goes to name 4 and e-mail address 1 you have 5 minutes.

and

- victim 1 in one day 120 text messages sent via Telegram, among others I saw an e-mail from your brother-in-law today and I did not know it would get out of hand like this. and it is true that he has arranged a contact ban . and i just wanted to see you naked ..
3. at times in the period from 1 May 2015 to 5 June 2015 in the Netherlands, each time intentionally and unlawfully identifying personal data, not being biometric personal data, of another person, namely the Facebook Messenger account and the (false) e -mailaddress e-mailaddress 2 in the name of name 2, has been used, with the intention of concealing his, suspects, identity or misusing the identity of that name 2 , as a result of which some use has resulted from that use, after all, he, suspect , via Facebook Messenger and e-mail address 2 sexually tinted messages sent as if he, suspect, name 2.

4. on 11 May 2015 in the Netherlands, he threatened victim 2 with arson, after all, suspect intentionally victim 2 added threateningly the words: The neighbor's bus on house number house number is set on fire.

Case B:

3. on 9 April 2016 he used personal and illegally identifying personal data in the Netherlands, namely the Facebook Messenger account under the name name 7, with the intention of misusing the identity of victim 5 , as a result of which some disadvantage arose from that use may have arisen, after all, he, the suspect, sent sexually tinted messages and photos via Facebook Messenger to name 8 as if he, the suspect, the victim 5.

What has been charged more or differently in case A under 1, 3 and 4 and in case B under 3 has not been proven. The suspect must be acquitted of this.

The statement of evidence is based on the facts and circumstances that are contained in the means of proof as they will be included in the supplement to this judgment after the possible appeal in cassation.

Punishability of the proven
No circumstance has become plausible which excludes the punishability of the evidence declared in case A under 1, 3 and 4 and in case B under 3, so that this is punishable.

The certified statement in case A under 1 yields:

attack.

The certified statement in case A under 3 yields:

use identifying personal data, not being biometric personal data, of another for the purpose of misusing the identity of the other , committed several times

The certified statement in case A under 4 yields:

arson threat.

The proven statement in case B under 3 yields:

use identifying personal data, not being biometric personal data, of another person for the purpose of misusing the identity of the other person .

Punishability of the suspect
No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the suspect's punishability with regard to the proven fact in case A under 1, 3 and 4 and in case B under 3, so that the suspect is punishable.

Imposition of penalties
The Amsterdam District Court sentenced the accused, in the first instance in case A under 1 to 6 and in case B 2 to 4, to a suspended sentence of six months, with deduction of custody, a probationary period of three years and as special conditions - in short - an obligation to report, adhere to indications of the probation service and cooperate in research by a behavioral expert. In addition, the suspect was sentenced to community service for 240 hours or alternatively 120 days in custody.

The Advocate General has requested that the accused for the charges charged in case A under 1 to 4 and 6 and in case B under 2 and 3 be sentenced to a suspended prison sentence of six months, with deduction of detention, a probationary period of three years and the special conditions as set by the court of first instance as well as cooperation in any indicated outpatient treatment. He also requests the imposition of community service for a period of 200 hours or alternatively 100 days in custody.

The counselor requested that the suspect not impose an unconditional prison sentence and that the probationary period for the imposition of a conditional prison sentence be set at two years. It also requested that the level of the community service demand demanded be moderated.

On appeal, the Court of Appeal determined the penalties to be imposed on the basis of the seriousness of the facts and the circumstances in which they were committed and in view of the person of the suspect. The Court of Appeal in particular took the following into consideration.

The suspect was guilty of looting his ex-sister-in-law for a month. He presented himself as two other persons and sent the victim various messages via various social media. Because of these proven acts of abuse, he has intimidated her privacy. Assault is a crime that directly affects the privacy and well-being of an assailed person and will therefore usually result in a psychological burden.

In addition, the suspect - in short - committed identity fraud by using a Facebook Messenger account and an email address in the name of a third party and a Facebook Messenger account of his ex-wife. Identity fraud causes inconvenience and annoyance as well as loss of trust on the part of whose or whose identity has been misused and on behalf of those who have used this false data.

Finally, the suspect was guilty of a arson threat . Such a fact affects the sense of security of the victim in particular and is suitable for frightening.

According to an extract from the Judicial Documentation of November 4, 2019 concerning the suspect, he has not previously been irrevocably convicted. From this and from the fact that the suspect did not come into contact with the judicial authorities even after the facts that have now been proven, the court assumes that there has been a temporary derailment that is related to the then personal circumstances of the suspect. In favor of the suspect, the court takes into account that, despite his negative attitude, he now seems to have given a different direction to his life.

The seriousness of the proven facts justifies the imposition of a custodial sentence. However, also in view of the personal circumstances of the suspect, the court will impose this sentence in conditional form, namely a suspended prison sentence for a period of four months, with a probationary period of two years. This punishment is deemed appropriate and commanded, since it expresses, on the one hand, the seriousness of the offense and, on the other hand, to prevent the suspect from committing another offense in the future. The Court of Appeal considers that the special conditions set by the court of first instance, partly in view of the passage of time, are no longer appropriate. In addition, it emerged from the proceedings at the hearing that the suspect is being treated on a voluntary basis by apsychologist .

Moreover, in view of the seriousness of the facts, in addition, a community service sentence for 100 hours or, alternatively, 50 days in custody is considered appropriate and appropriate.

The Court of Appeal has found that the reasonable period as referred to in Article 6 (1) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has been violated on appeal. After all, more than two years have passed between the date on which the appeal was lodged on 29 June 2017 and the date on which the Court of Appeal will give a judgment, namely on 12 December 2019. This is seen as a reason to moderate the 100-hour community service order imposed to a 90-hour community service order.

Claim of the injured party victim 1
The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 2,000.00, consisting of immaterial damage, plus the statutory interest.

The claim is in the judgment of which the appeal is granted in full, plus the statutory interest and with the imposition of the compensation measure.

The injured party has joined the appeal again for the amount of the original claim.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim for compensation be granted in accordance with the decision of the court, plus the statutory interest, and with the imposition of the compensation measure as referred to in Article 36f of the Criminal Code .

The defense has challenged the claim for damages, insofar as it has argued that the claimed non-material damage is insufficiently substantiated.

The court considers as follows.

Intangible damage within the meaning of Article 6: 106 (1) (b) of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) may qualify for compensation if the injured person has been 'otherwise affected in his person'. To this end, it is required that the existence of mental injury can be established by objective standards. This is only different if the nature and the seriousness of the violation of standards entail that the adverse consequences thereof for the injured person in this context are so obvious that an attack on the person can be assumed. Staggering can result in an invasion of privacy such that there is also damage to the person without an established mental injury.

As a result of the suspected actions of the suspect in case A under 1, a serious infringement of the personal life of victim 1 was committed. The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that the nature and seriousness of the violation of standards and the consequences thereof for the injured person - the quality of her life has been compromised and the suspect has abused her trust by repeatedly pretending to be someone else and then to invade her life in a malicious way - making the claimed immaterial damage attributable. The Court of Appeal will estimate the extent of the non-material damage according to standards of fairness at an amount of € 1,000.00. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage.

For the rest, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the handling of the claim results in a disproportionate burden on the criminal proceedings. To that extent, the injured party can therefore not be received in the claim and the claim can only be made to the civil court.

The Court of Appeal will impose the compensation measure in the manner described below to promote the compensation of the damage by the suspect.

Claim of the injured party victim 5
The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to (as the court understands) a minimum of € 2,500.00, consisting of immaterial damage, plus the statutory interest.

The claim is assigned in the judgment for which an appeal has been made up to an amount of € 750.00, plus the statutory interest and with the imposition of the compensation measure.

The injured party rejoined itself on appeal and explained at the hearing that it is claiming compensation for an amount of € 2,500.00 for non-material damage.

The Advocate General has requested that the claim for compensation be granted in accordance with the decision of the court, plus the statutory interest and with the imposition of the compensation measure as referred to in Article 36f of the Criminal Code .
The defense has challenged the claim for damages, insofar as it has argued that the claimed non-material damage is insufficiently substantiated.

The court considers as follows.

From the investigation at the hearing, the Court of Appeal has proved sufficiently that the injured party was harmed to her honor as a result of the accused's proven actions in case B under 3 and thereby suffered direct immaterial damage within the meaning of Section 6: 106 of the Dutch Civil Code. The Court of Appeal will estimate the extent of the non-material damage on the basis of the provisions of Article 6: 106 of the Dutch Civil Code according to standards of fairness at € 750.00. In this context, particular attention was paid to the nature and seriousness of the actions of the suspect, the consequences for the injured party - the quality of her life has been compromised and the suspect has abused her trust by using her identity and sexually to a third party under her namesend tinted messages and photos - as well as the compensation awarded by judges in similar cases. The suspect is obliged to compensate for that damage.

For the rest, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the handling of the claim results in a disproportionate burden on the criminal proceedings. To that extent, the injured party can therefore not be received in the claim and the claim can only be made to the civil court.

The Court of Appeal will impose the compensation measure in the manner described below to promote the compensation of the damage by the suspect.

Claim of the injured party victim 6
The injured party joined the criminal proceedings in the first instance with a claim for compensation. This amounts to € 12,238.63, consisting of € 8,187.63 in material damage and € 4,060.00 in intangible damage, plus statutory interest.

The claim is assigned in the judgment for which an appeal was made to an amount of € 8,393.03, consisting of € 7,393.00 in material damage and € 1,000 in intangible damage, plus the statutory interest and with the imposition of the compensation measure.

The injured party did not rejoin the appeal. The court of appeal has to rule on appeal on the claim for damages insofar as it has been awarded in the first instance.

The suspect is not declared guilty in respect of the actions charged in case B under 4 which would have caused the alleged damage. The injured party can therefore not be received in the claim.

Applicable legal requirements
The penalties and measures to be imposed are based on Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 22c, 22d, 36f, 57, 231b, 285 and 285b of the Criminal Code .

These legal regulations are applied as applicable at the time of the proven explanation.

DECISION
The court:

Declares the suspect inadmissible in the appeal, in so far as it is directed against the decision regarding the charges under 1 in the case with public prosecutor number 13-669080-16 (B).

Declares the prosecution inadmissible in the prosecution, insofar as this concerns the part “and / or name 1” charged in the case with prosecutor number 13-669080-16 (B) under 2.

Destroys the judgment whose appeal - insofar as it is substantively subject to the judgment of the Court of Appeal - and does justice to the extent that:

Declares that it has not been proven that the accused committed charges in the case with case number 13-665181-15 (A) under 2, 5 and 6 and in case with case number 13-669080-16 (B) under 2 and 4 and speaks with the suspect free.

Declares, as considered above, proven that the accused committed charges in the case with parquet number 13-665181-15 (A) under 1, 3 and 4 and in the case with parquet number 13-669080-16 (B) under 3.

Does not explain what the accused has been charged more or differently than was proven above and acquits the accused of this.

Declares it punishable in the case with case number 13-665181-15 (A) under 1, 3 and 4 and in case with case number 13-669080-16 (B) under 3 proven, qualifies as mentioned above and declares the suspect punishable .

Sentences the suspect to imprisonment for 4 (four) months .

Determines that the prison sentence will not be enforced, unless the judge may later order otherwise because the suspect has committed a criminal offense before the end of a probationary period of 2 (two) years .

Sentences the suspect to community service for 90 (ninety) hours , if not properly performed, to be replaced by 45 (forty-five) days in custody .

Recommends that the time taken by the accused before the implementation of that decision only in Article 27, paragraph, or Article 27a of the Code of Criminal referred form of detention spent in the execution of the imposed sanction will be deducted , according to the standard of two hours of community service per day spent in pre-trial detention, insofar as that time has not already been deducted from another sentence.

Claim of the injured party victim 1

Allocate the claim for damages from the injured party victim 1 in respect of the proven claim in the case with public prosecutor number 13-665181-15 (A) to the amount of € 1,000.00 (thousand euros) for non-material damage, plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be mentioned below until the date of payment .

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the suspect the obligation to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named

victim 1, to pay an amount of € 1,000.00 (thousand euros) as compensation for non-material damage in the case with public prosecutor 13-665181-15 (A) under 1 proven to compensate for non-material damage , in the absence of payment and redress by 20 (twenty) days in custody , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 5 June 2015 .

Claim of the injured party victim 5

Allocate the claim for damages from the injured party victim 5 in respect of the proven claim in the case with parquet number 13-669080-16 (B) under 3 to the amount of € 750.00 (seven hundred and fifty euros) for non-material damage, plus the statutory interest from the starting date to be mentioned below until the date of payment .

Declares the injured party otherwise inadmissible in the claim and determines that the injured party can only bring the claim before the civil court.

Orders the suspect to pay the costs incurred by the injured party and still to be incurred for the purposes of enforcement, estimated at nil until the date of this judgment.

Imposes on the suspect the obligation to the State, for the benefit of the victim, named

victim 5, to pay an amount of € 750.00 (seven hundred and fifty euros) as compensation for non-material damage in the case with public prosecutor 13-669080-16 (B) under 3 proven to compensate for non-material damage , in the absence of payment and redress by 15 (fifteen) days in custody , plus the statutory interest from the commencement date below until the date of payment, on the understanding that the application of such custody does not cancel the obligation to pay compensation to the State for the benefit of the victim.

Determines that if and insofar as the suspect has met one of the two payment obligations, the other will lapse.

Determines the start date of the statutory interest for the non-material damage on 9 April 2016 .

Claim of the injured party victim 6

The injured party declares victim 6 inadmissible in the claim for compensation.

Declares that the injured party and the suspect each bear their own costs.

This judgment has been delivered by the Multiple Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal, which included MLM van der Voet, FMD Aardema and M. Lolkema, in the presence of A. Stronkhorst, clerk of the court, and pronounced on the public hearing of this court of

December 12, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 4430