Content indication
Access arrangement . After letter council report which dealings mother / child is discouraged, accept mother 's wish the child that still no deal will be. She would like to be in touch. Court follows advice.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-01-10
Publication date
2019-01-16
Case number
200.222.504 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court of appeal 200.222.504 / 01

(Case number Court of Overijssel C / 08/195052 / FA RK 16-2980)

decision of January 10, 2019

on

the liquidator , acting in her capacity as liquidator of:

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: ACW Duiveman in Zwolle,

and

the certified institution

Youth Protection Foundation Overijssel,

established in Zwolle,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following are considered as stakeholders:

the B family,

to be called: the foster parents .


1 The course of the appeal proceedings

1.1
For the course of the proceedings until 26 April 2018, the court of appeal refers to its interim decision of that date.


1.2
The further course appears from:

- a journal report on behalf of mr. Duiveman of 27 July 2018 with cover letter;

- a letter from the Council for the Child (hereinafter referred to as the Board ) of July 30, 2018 with attached thereto a council report of July 27, 2018;

- a journal report on behalf of mr. Duiveman of 5 November 2018 with production (s);

- a journal report on behalf of mr. Duiveman of 20 November 2018 with production (s).


1.3
The minor the minor (hereinafter referred to as the minor ), born in 2006, was given the opportunity to make his opinion known with regard to the request, but has informed the court that he does not want to use it.


1.4
Oral treatment continued on November 22, 2018. The mother , who did not appear in person, was represented by her lawyer and curator . Mrs C and Mrs D appeared on behalf of the GI . Mr. E appeared on behalf of the council .


2 The reasons for the decision

2.1
The Court of Appeal will stick to what has been considered and decided in its (interim) order of 26 April 2018, unless otherwise considered or decided below.


2.2
In that decision, the Court of Appeal asked the council to issue a letter report on the possibility of contact between the mother and the minor , the possibilities for improving the understanding between the mother and the GI and the progress of the initiated system therapy for the minor , where the court has stayed the case.


2.3
In its letter report of 27 July 2018, which was subsequently drawn up, the Council advised to reject the mother 's request for an access arrangement between her and the minor . The report shows that the mother does not have the necessary acceptance of the minor 's home location. She also takes insufficient account of the distance requested by the minor and respect for boundaries by sometimes popping up unexpectedly and unasked for somewhere in his neighborhood. The militant attitude of the mother is very stressful and confusing for the minor , who himself (therefore) objects to contact with his mother . the minor experiences her as unpredictable and unreliable and feels trapped between important adults to whom he wants to be loyal. Because of this , he blocks and he cannot open himself for therapy at this moment (with F). The mother blames the resulting removal between her and the minor primarily on others and on factors outside herself. The Council concludes that as long as the current, unsafe context continues for the minor , interaction will be detrimental to his development . The mothermust first of all accept that the minor has found his place in the foster home . She must also adjust her own expectations and unconditionally agree with the preconditions set by the minor himself.


2.4
The file shows that the minor is a traumatized boy, who grew up in a troubled and unsafe home situation due to the mother being overburdened by her own (physical and emotional ) problems and the long-term divorce problems between his parents . After many changes of residence , the minor has now been living for more than four years in the current foster home , where he is used to and where things are going well for him under circumstances. The mother has not previously shown that she is acting or able to act in the best interests of the minor . Since July 2016 there has been no (structural) interaction between the mother and the minor (partly) because the mother had major objections to assisted interaction . According to the GI, this was necessary because the mother said incriminating things to the minor during previous intercourse moments , did not follow advice and entered the battle (with the youth protector (s)). The mother 's resistance to the minor 's placement in the home and the frequent procedures have a negative impact on the well-being of the minor and the mother .


2.5
In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal finds that establishing an access arrangement between the mother and the minor (at present) conflicts with the weighty interests of the minor . The court of appeal will therefore reject the request of the mother on appeal.

the minor benefits from clarity about who he sees and does not see and now first needs rest to (with the use of therapy) process the incriminating events in his life.


2.6
At the hearing of the court the mother 's lawyer indicated that the access arrangement requested by the mother (of a weekend every fourteen days) - in view of the council's advice, but also because of the current situation of the mother - is not possible at the moment. The mother would like a form of contact / connection with the minor , for example by sending cards. The GI has indicated that it is not opposed to this, provided that the wishes of the minor are taken into account. On the basis of what the lawyer and the curator of the motherHaving brought forward the hearing, the court sees - compared to the hearing of March 29, 2018 - a movement with the mother in the sense that her fighting spirit seems less prominent and she looks more at (the possibilities in) the future. The court has the impression that the mother is busy accepting that the minor will (further) grow up in the foster family . In this process of acceptance, the mother greatly benefits from the weekly help from G. Nevertheless, she still finds it difficult to fully trust the foster parents and to accept the minor 's place there. The Councilstresses that it would be helping the situation that the mother in her proposal tickets to underage send to her resignation in the residence of the minor in foster let ring. The court understands that it is difficult for the mother to keep her distance, but the court hopes that, in the interests of the minor, she will continue to do her best to take a cooperative approach. In the event of a run-up to contact recovery , a strike from the fight and cooperation with the GI and foster parents is indispensable.


3 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision.


4 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

confirms the decision of the court of Overijssel, location Zwolle, of 16 May 2017.

This decision was made by mrs. JG Idsardi, GM van der Meer and AW Beversluis, assisted by E. Klijn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 10 January 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 199