Content indication
Appointment of a special liquidator .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-19
Publication date
2019-03-05
Case number
200.235.904 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.235.904 / 01

Case number court: C / 13/633399 FA RK 17/5174 (LB / JP)

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 19 February 2019 on

the father ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the father ,

lawyer: JJM Kleiweg in Amsterdam,

and

the mother ,

living at home,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: J. van Koesveld in Amsterdam.

The following is also considered as an interested party:

- the minor child D (hereinafter referred to as: child D).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location: Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the juvenile court in the Amsterdam District Court (hereinafter: the District Court) of 20 December 2017, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The father appealed on 19 March 2018 against the aforementioned decision of 20 December 2017.


2.2
The mother submitted a statement of defense on 24 April 2018.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 19 December 2018. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by his lawyer;

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. DM van Dijk.


3 The facts

3.1
From the relationship of the father and mother broken off in 2003 (hereafter also referred to as: the parents ), child D was born in 2006 at the place of birth. The father and mother are also the parents of:

- child A (hereinafter referred to as: child A), born in 1998 at the place of birth,

- child B (hereinafter referred to as: child B), born in 1999 at the place of birth, and

- child C (hereinafter referred to as: child C), born in 2001 at the place of birth.

child A, child B, child C and child D are together referred to below as 'the children'.


3.2
child D lives with the father and his partner X (hereinafter referred to as: X).


3.3
The children are from January 7, 2008 to January 7, 2013 under the supervision stood by Youth Protection Region Amsterdam (hereinafter JBRA ).


3.4
By order of the court of 8 September 2010, it was determined that the parents were jointly charged with custody of the children and that the children had their principal residence with the father . The division of care and upbringing tasks is divided in such a way that the mother carries the children on Wednesday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. according to the visiting schedule as laid down in the letter from JBRA of 24 June 2010. In addition, the mother has the childrenonce a month on Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., with due observance of the relevant provisions in the letter from JBRA of 2 July 2010.


3.5
In (between) the disposal of the court of October 11, 2017 is the board from bringing requested report and advice on the mother requested care arrangement with child development, in the sense or in child D space is to have contact with her mother and if so, in what form and size.


3.6
The documents include a report from the council of November 21, 2017 (hereinafter: the council report).


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision - at the request of the mother to that effect - stipulates, with the amendment of the decision of 8 September 2010, that the mother and child D will have contact with each other as follows:

- a call contact on Wednesday afternoon;

- from January 1, 2018:

a visit from child D to her mother one day in the weekend together with (one of) her sisters;

and as soon as child D is ready to spend the night with her mother once every two weeks from Saturday to Sunday . Parents and where necessary X must coordinate this in mutual consultation;

- the holidays and public holidays must be divided by mutual agreement.


4.2
The father requests that, with the annulment of the contested decision, the introductory request of the mother should still be rejected, or at least to take such a decision as the court considers correct.


4.3
The mother requests that the requests of the father on appeal be rejected.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The parents have the custody together . Pursuant to Article 1: 253a of the Civil Code (BW), the court may, at the request of the parents or one of them, establish a regulation concerning the exercise of parental authority . This arrangement may include an allocation to each of the parents of the care and upbringing duties.


5.2
The father argues that the court wrongly care arrangement between child development and the mother has identified and puts forward, including the following. child D has not had contact with the mother since she was six and has no need for it. She was raised by X and sees her as her mother . The father does realize that child D has the right to know who she is from and he has repeatedly explained to her that if she wants to contact the mother , he can agree to this. childHowever, D is not ready for this yet and the health care arrangement as determined by the court is therefore not in its interest. It is precisely in the interest of child D that she is given the time to come to contact recovery herself when she is ready. A mandatory contact recovery is counterproductive and causes a lot of unrest, says the father .


5.3
The mother argues that the district court awarded a care arrangement between her and child has captured D and puts forward, including the following. The mother acknowledges that she has made mistakes in the past, but she would like to show child D that this picture of her does not correspond to the current situation. However, the father impedes child D from re-establishing contact with the mother because of his own anger , so that child D has ended up in a loyalty conflict. She is not given the room to independently judge the motherwhich is not in its interest. This is all the more true now that child B and child C have (good) contact with the mother . The mother understands that X is very important in the life of child D and she is also grateful to her for having taken on the mother role for child D. The mother also understands that the contact between her and child D may be slower than has been established by the court. However, it is in the interest of child D to be her motherto know and know who she is from, so the father 's request must be rejected, according to the mother .


5.4
At the hearing on appeal, the council took the position that - as was concluded in the council report - contact recovery between the mother and child D is important. However, a condition for contact recovery is that the father gives emotional permission to do so. This does not seem possible for the father . Since child D is clearly in trouble, outside support seems to be a good idea, either in the form of a special guardianship or from the Youth Protection Agency , according to the council .


5.5
The court considers as follows.

The documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal have shown that there has been a very difficult relationship between the parents for some time and that there is virtually no contact between them. Both parents have a taxable history, there are personal problems and the parents have experienced the necessary - both together and separately. child D grew up with her brother and sisters in the home situation with the father and X and has not had contact with the mother for a while . The parents disagree as to how long child D is her motherhas not seen. According to the mother this is about two years, according to the father this is four to five years. Care has been arranged for a long time between the other children and the mother and child B now (since April 2017) lives with the mother . Also child C has good contact with the mother . The council report also shows that the father rejects contact between child D and the mother . The father is concerned about the parenting environment of the motherand mutual trust is missing. It is clear that child D - and also the other children - suffer from the conflicting relationship between the parents . For example, child B no longer has contact with the father , which means that contact between child B and child D is also disturbed . child D seems to be trapped by the current situation and seems to be in opposition to contact with the mother . For example, in October 2017 she informed the court by letter that she did not need ithas contact with the mother , while afterwards she has informed the council investigator (carefully) that she is open to this. The council , the court following the study recommended a constructive care arrangement between child development and the mother record, which established the court in the contested decision. In order to seat, however, it has been found in appeal that until now no meaning to this care arrangement is given. The parents disagree as to the cause of this impasse.

Finally, it appears that JBRA is currently involved with the family in the voluntary framework, in particular for child C.


5.6
In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal is currently insufficiently informed about the question of whether a care scheme and, if so, what interpretation of the care scheme is in the interest of child D. In addition, it is important that child D has not had contact with the mother for some time , that she seems to be in opposition to this contact and that the father seems to offer her little emotional scope to make untaxed contact with the mother as a result of past experiences . to have. Considering this and considering the views of both parents and the wishes and interests of the childD, the court of appeal deems it necessary in its interest to appoint a special liquidator . The guardian ad litem shall Child D in respect of the care arrangements represent and as part of the fulfillment of that task research carried out into what they - no tax on the part of the parents - finds itself important when it comes to contact with the mother . The Court of Appeal considers it important that this investigation be carried out by a neutral person, who - in contrast to the JBRA employee already involved - has no role in the family system (yet). The special liquidatorare requested to fulfill this assignment through conversations with child D, parents and X and all assistance involved in the family . The Court of Appeal has found that the contacts between parents and other children are also under pressure. These relationships can also influence the (quality of the) possible contacts between child D and her mother . With this in mind, the guardian ad litem may , if it considers it necessary for the answers to the questions below, include the other children and the influence that they assume in answering the questions in itsinvolve research .

The parents must cooperate in obtaining all information deemed relevant by the guardian ad litem. The guardian ad litem is requested to submit a written report to the court within two months following the questions below.


5.7
The Court of Appeal found Mrs. I. Henar, psychologist and mediator in Amsterdam, prepared to act as special guardian for child D. The Court of Appeal will now proceed to appoint the latter as special guardian of child D.


5.8
Every further decision is reserved pending the report of the guardian ad litem.


5.9
The above leads to the following decision.


6 Decision
The court:

- appoints, before taking any further decisions, as of today the guardian ad litem as referred to in article 1: 250 of the Dutch Civil Code about the minor child D:

Mrs. I. Henar

PO Box 9165

1180 MD Amsterdam

- requests the bankruptcy trustee to report on the following questions, taking into account what has been considered about this in paragraph 5.6:

- What is the relationship between child D and both her parents ?

- Are there factors from child D that impede contact with the mother ? If so, what are they and how and within what period can these barriers be removed?

- Are there factors outside child D making contact with the mother is impeded ? If so, what are they, can these obstacles be removed and, if so, within what period?

- What are the wishes of child D with regard to the way in which a regulation concerning the division of care and upbringing tasks should be shaped in terms of form and frequency? Do the wishes of child D match what is in her interest?

- If you think that a care scheme is in the best interests of child D: which care scheme do you consider most relevant in terms of form and frequency?

- What other findings follow from the research that are relevant to the decision to be taken with regard to the care scheme ?

- requests the guardian ad litem to send the report to the court and to the parties no later than one week before the pro forma date mentioned below;

- appoints JMC Louwinger-Rijk as supervisory director with whom the guardian ad litem can, if there is reason to, understand the conduct and progress of the investigation ;

- determines that the Registrar of the Court of Appeal shall make a copy of the procedural documents available to the guardian ad litem within one week of the date of this order ;

- will continue to handle the case pro forma until Sunday, April 21, 2019, after which it will be determined how the case will be continued;

- keeps any further decision.

This decision was made by JMC Louwinger-Rijk, HA van den Berg, and PJWM Sliepenbeek, in the presence of SCGA Duivenvoorde, as clerk of the court, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 19 February 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 670