Content indication
The Court of Appeal requests the parties to comment on the expert to be appointed and the questions asked for the purpose of a parental investigation .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-21
Publication date
2019-06-03
Case number
200.241.407 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.241.407 / 01

Case numbers court: C13 / 622531 / FA RK 17-383 and C13 / 622555 / FA RK 17-402

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 21 May 2019 concerning

the father ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

defendant in an incidental appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the father ,

lawyer: JFM van Weegberg in The Hague,

and

the mother ,

living at home,

respondent on appeal,

applicant in an incidental appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. K. Spaargaren in Hilversum.

The following is designated as an interested party:

- the minor minor (hereinafter referred to as: minor )

The following are considered as informers:

- the certified Amsterdam Youth Protection Agency (hereinafter referred to as: the GI);

- the child supporter , Mr X (hereinafter referred to as: the child supporter ).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the orders of the Amsterdam District Court of 14 March 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The father appealed on 13 June 2018 against the aforementioned decision of 14 March 2018.


2.2
On 2 August 2018, the mother filed a statement of defense, including an incidental appeal.


2.3
On 11 September 2018, the father submitted a statement of defense to the incidental appeal.


2.4
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a letter from the father of 2 July 2018 with the procedural file in first instance as an attachment;

- a letter from the mother of 29 March 2019 with appendices, received on 1 April 2019

- a letter from the GI of 22 March 2019, received on 26 March 2019, in which it is reported that the GI has no longer been involved since 20 July 2018 and will therefore not appear at the court hearing.


2.5.
The chairman spoke with a minor prior to the session .


2.6
The oral hearing took place on 8 April 2019. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by his lawyer, who submitted pleading notes at the hearing;

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. Y;

- the childcare representative .


3 The facts

3.1
The parents had an affective relationship with each other and were married on December 18, 2007. A minor was born from this relationship in 2005 .


3.2
Divorce between the parties was pronounced by order of 15 June 2011 . The divorce decree was registered on 28 June 2011 in the Registry of the Civil Registry. The parents jointly exercise parental authority over minors from.


3.3
In July 2013, a minor was placed under supervision for the duration of one year.


3.4
By order of the Court of Amsterdam November 13, 2013 states that minors are provisional principal residence obtained from the mother and the minor every 14 days on Wednesday after school until Monday to school at the father resides, and half the holidays and special days. By order of 3 February 2014, the court definitively established the care scheme and further determined that the care scheme can be adjusted or extended in mutual consultation and under the supervision and guidance of the family guardian.


3.5
The implementation of the care scheme has stagnated because on 18 November 2016 the minor indicated that he no longer wanted to stay with his father .


3.6
By order of 3 July 2017, the minor was again placed under supervision for the duration of one year.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision amended the decision of 3 February 2014 to the extent that the care scheme was discontinued.


4.2
The father asks the contested order aside as far as the allocation of the mother requested termination of the care arrangement and

redress, enforceable in stock, the application at first instance under sub II. the father regarding the care arrangements still to be allocated, at least to be determined by the court in good justice make arrangements to establish.

Which the father in first instance under sub II. has requested that provision be made for the care scheme as laid down by the court on 13 November 2013 and 3 February 2014 to be respected for the mother on pain of corporal coercion whereby the father is granted leave to hold her hostage for any violation for a maximum of three days or a penalty of € 1,000 per violation, with a maximum of € 50,000.


4.3
The mother requests, in the main appeal, to ratify the contested decision and to reject the father's appeal . In an incidental appeal, the mother requests a contact prohibition in the broadest sense of the word from the father towards the mother and minor , on pain of a penalty of € 1,000 for each violation with a maximum of € 75,000. Finally , both in principal and in incidental appeal, the mother requests that the father be ordered to pay the costs of legal proceedings of € 3,000, plus VAT and court fees.


4.4
The father asks in the cross-appeal to the mother in her request not inadmissible, or the requests as unfounded or off point, ordering the mother to pay the costs of the proceedings, including subsequent costs, enforceable stock.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Under Article 1: 253a paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) in conjunction with Article 1: 377th Civil Code, the court may at the request of the parents or one of them a decision on the exercise of parental authority as well as the parents themselves change the arrangement made on the ground that the circumstances have subsequently changed or that incorrect or incomplete information was assumed when the decision was made. Based on Article 1: 253a paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil Code, this amended regulation can include:

a. an allocation to each of the parents of the care and upbringing duties, and with the corresponding application of Article 377a, third paragraph, a temporary prohibition on a parent to have contact with the child .

Pursuant to the fifth paragraph of Article 1: 253a of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may , if requested, impose a means of coercion permitted by law , if no agreement is reached between the parents and the child's interests do not prevent this.


5.2
The father states that there are no contraindications, as a result of which contact between the father and minor may not be possible. He denies that he minor has beaten, punched, or pushed, and he has minor nor humiliating treatment, he says. He does not understand where the resistance comes from, because he had a very good relationship with his son up to and including the autumn holiday of 2016. He is afraid that the mother wants to ban him from the life of a minor and her new request in the first instance to be entrusted with authority alone, testifies, according to him. The fatheris convinced that the minor has been brainwashed, so that he believes in the events of which he accuses his father . Nevertheless, the father is convinced that there will be room for minors , if they see each other again, a psychological trajectory could help a minor .

The father would like to go through a process with a mother at a forensic mediator. A mediation process did not get off the ground during the supervision , because the mother had a lot of resistance. Mrs A (the mediator) already advised forensic mediation. A new council investigation could perhaps shed more light on the entire situation surrounding minors .


5.3
The mother argues that a minor should be listened to and that his statements about abuse by his father have been made by him from the age of four on various occasions and individuals. The resistance of a minor must be taken seriously and it is high time for peace. The past year has shown that minors have become more relaxed after the court ruling and that this has also benefited his school results. He has had a lot of help in the past. He has been with a child psychiatrist , a play therapist and a physical therapist. There are assistance modulesfollowed such as 'Children from the trap', 'Child in divorce' and a child supporter has been deployed. Just like the aforementioned assistance , the last supervision order has not brought any improvement. The mother feels desperate and exhausted because of all the attempts that have been made.


5.4
The child supporter has stated that he has not been in contact with a minor since May 2017. He observes from the proceedings at the hearing that the struggle between the parents has hardened and that the minor is in the middle of it. It is important that the parents give minors permission to re-establish contact with his father . The first step cannot be expected from a minor . It may well be that the peace that minor now experiences is just a sham.


5.5
The council advises at the hearing that a new process should not be started for minors , given the long history of providing assistance . Forcing him will not produce anything either. A new council investigation will have to involve a minor again and that will burden him again. The expectation is that research will be a repeat of moves. The attitude of the parents is focused on struggle and that should be broken. In the past the parents have followed 'Children from the pinch'. Perhaps forensic mediation can yield something.


5.6
The court considers as follows. minor has been out of contact with his father since November 2016 . The central question is whether the care scheme as previously laid down in the order of the court of 3 February 2014 should therefore be amended in the sense that this scheme will be stopped, or that, as the father has suggested , there are still means to to be able to restore / re-establish this contact. The question then also arises of who should be started, the parents , the father , the mother or minor .


5.7
The minor has clearly and consistently expressed his position in the child conversation with the chairman. At the moment, he feels no room to re-establish contact with his father . According to him, this has to do with the way in which he has been treated by his father . He has lost the confidence that his father can change and wants peace. He is happy with the family that he forms with his mother and "grandma." He does well at school and enjoys his hobbies.

In the opinion of the court, the expressions and perception of a minor must be respected at this time. Considering the age of the minor and the many help trajectories that he has already experienced in his life, the court agrees with the council and the child supporter that it is first necessary to work on other (basic) conditions and that the parents are currently it's up to him. Leaving the matter alone is not an option either. It is not good for the identity development of a minor that he gets stuck in the nasty images and experiences with regard to his father. Moreover, there will be no rest for him in the short term, since a new procedure has been initiated by the mother with regard to parental authority .


5.8
The question is what is possible to help parents and to learn how to get out of the struggle, so that in the long term they can create a climate for minors to re-establish contact with his father , so that he can adjust the mistrust that lives with him . It is therefore necessary for the parents to consult with each other about what minor needs and what that requires from each of the parents . It was discussed at the hearing that the use of forensic mediation could be a means of improving communication patterns between parentsvisible. This could be a first step for change. It can also be investigated what help parents need to achieve balance in the conversation.

The mother has pointed to earlier processes that the parents have gone through. However, the Court of Appeal also found that the most recent offer of assistance, at the time of being placed under supervision in 2018, did not get off the ground because the mediator considered a more demanding process necessary. And, as considered above, it is not important at this point in time how minor can be moved to make contact with his father , but how parents can be equipped to build a safe bridge for him.

The court considers it likely that a reorientation of parenting by means of a so-called parenting research can be achieved. The Court therefore intends to order such an investigation .


5.9
The Court of Appeal wishes the expert to be appointed to further investigate the following questions:

a. a) What is the relationship between parties at parent level ? Is there a recognizable pattern in the way they interact?

b) Can the parent relationship be improved in such a way that the minor remains outside the conflict of the parties and that he is not bothered by the communication between the parties?

c) Do the parents need help in improving their communication and what help is suitable for them?

d) To what extent do the research reveal findings that have not been addressed in the research questions , but that are relevant? And if these emerge, what are these findings?


5.10
The Court intends to appoint as an expert:

- Mrs. expert name 1

address 1

phone numbers

email address 1

She is willing to conduct the research .

Either:

- Mrs. expert name 2

address 2

phone number

email address 2

She is willing to conduct the research .

The Court of Appeal requests the parties to express themselves in writing at the following pro forma session about the expert to be appointed and the questions to be asked.


5.11
A parental investigation is an expert report within the meaning of art. 194 et seq. Code of Civil Procedure (Rv). The court of appeal draws the parents' attention to the provisions of art. 198 paragraph 3 Rv, which means that the parties are obliged to cooperate in the investigation and that if the parties do not comply with this obligation, the court of appeal can draw the conclusion that the court deems appropriate. The court of appeal therefore draws the parties' attention to the importance of being fully committed. The non-committal nature of this expert investigation is thus distinguished from what is generally known by the term 'mediation in addition to case law'.


5.12
When applying art. 195 and 199 Rv, the costs of an expert report in subpoena proceedings are borne by the parties. In proceedings initiated with a petition, such as the present proceedings, those provisions in art. 284 paragraph 1 Rv declared applicable by analogy, unless the nature of the case dictates otherwise. If it is necessary in the best interests of the child for a parental investigation to take place, this provision offers the court the scope to charge the costs of such an investigation wholly or partially to the State. The Court of Appeal sees in the present case - in which the Legal Aid Council has granted the man an addition and the man therefore has limited capacityhas reason to determine that the costs of the expert, up to a maximum amount of € 4,500, including advances and VAT, will be borne by the State. The Court of Appeal assumes that the total costs will not exceed the latter amount. The expert must declare on the basis of a time account and on the basis of an hourly rate (or part thereof) of € 107.50 per hour, excluding VAT.


5.13
This leads to the following decision.


6 Decision
The court:

invites the parties to comment on the expert to be appointed and the questions to be asked within 14 days of the date of this decision;

to this end, the case will continue to be processed until Sunday, June 9, 2019 pro forma;

keep every further decision pro forma.

This decision was made by GW Brands-Bottema, JMC Louwinger-Rijk and TM Subelack, in the presence of the clerk, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on 21 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 1779