Content indication
Termination of joint authority on the basis of Article 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code instead of 1: 253a of the Dutch Civil Code. Psychiatric problems father makes one-sided authority of the mother necessary.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-03
Publication date
2019-10-09
Case number
200.254.392 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.254.392 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 19/122468 / FA RK 18-634)

decision of 3 October 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: mr. RB Sikkens in Hattem,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. KJ Kanning in Assen.


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the decisions of the court

Northern Netherlands, location Assen, of 6 June 2018 and 14 November 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 11 February 2019;

- the defense;

- a letter from the Council for Child Protection (hereinafter the Board ) on February 21, 2019;

- a journal report from mr. Sikkens of 29 March 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. Sikkens of 14 August 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The minors to be named have arrived by separate letters on

July 25, 2019, made their views known to the court regarding the request.


2.3
The oral hearing took place on 6 September 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. Mr. is on behalf of the council

C. appeared. Furthermore, a colleague of Mr. Kanning's office was present in the courtroom.


3 The facts

3.1
The marriage of parties was dissolved in 2011 by divorce .


3.2
Parties are the parents of:

- the minor1 (hereafter: the minor1), born in 2002;

- the minor2 (hereafter: the minor2), born in 2007,

who they jointly exercised authority under the contested decision .


3.3
The mother married Mr D in 2013. in

2012 they had a daughter together.


3.4
On the basis of agreements between the parties, the children had their main residence with the mother until March 2014 and thereafter with the father . From 11 May 2016 to 11 November 2018, the children were initially supervised by Youth Protection Gelderland and later Youth Protection North. On May 13, 2016, they were urgently placed from home in a network foster family. Since June 2016 and July 2016 respectively, the minor 2 and the minor 1 have been living with the mother again .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision provides that the parental authority of the father is terminated and that the mother is solely entrusted with the authority over the minor1 and the minor2.


4.2
The father appealed against the decision of with three complaints

November 14, 2018. These complaints aim to fully address the dispute on appeal. The father requests the court by order, as far as possible enforceable in stock:

a. annul the decision of 14 November 2018, or at least annul it

and again doing justice:

b. declare the mother inadmissible in her request for joint parental responsibility

to end his authority and to entrust her with the sole authority over the minor1 and the minor2, or at least to reject her requests.


4.3
The mother puts forward a defense and asks the father to declare it inadmissible in his request or to reject the request of the father and to confirm the decision of the court.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Section 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may, at the request of the parents who are not married to each other or of one of them, terminate the joint custody if afterwards the circumstances have changed or the decision on the basis of which the joint authority arose incorrect or incomplete data. On the basis of the second paragraph of art. 1: 253n BW, in which art. 1: 251a paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Dutch Civil Code have been declared correspondingly applicable, the court may in that case determine that custody of a child belongs to one of them if:

there is an unacceptable risk that the child would become trapped or lost between the parents and that it would not be expected that sufficient improvement would be achieved within the foreseeable future, or b. a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child .


5.2
Like the court, the court of appeal is of the opinion that there are sufficient grounds for granting the mother 's request . The court of appeal takes over the grounds of the court and adds the following. the minor1 (16 years) and the minor2 (12 years) have already experienced a lot. Until recently they were in a situation where there was still joint custody , serious in their development threatened . For this reason, a child protection measure has even been necessary for 2.5 years . One of the reasons for being under supervision was that the children were trapped between the parents, who both have a different vision of the safety of the children in the parenting parent's situation . Despite the fact that the juvenile court judge changed the primary residence of the minor1 and the minor2 to the mother during the custody , the father continues to question the safety of the children with the mother (and her new partner). There is a lot of distrust of the mother with the father . He is accusingthe mother , or at least her partner in cases of repeat child abuse and neglect, and also during the oral hearing on 6 September last. The accusations , however, do not find support in the documents and what was put forward by the mother at the hearing . This attitude seems to be characteristic of the struggle that the father , possibly under the influence of his illness, fights against the mother . The father has been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. He uses antipsychotics and antidepressants. He has been through various psychotic episodes in the past . The fatherlives as it were in its own reality. The psychiatric problems of the father mean that constructive communication about the children is not possible between the parents .

In consultation with the family guardian, the mother submitted this request in April 2018. The cessation of joint custody made it no longer necessary to extend custodial supervision according to Jeugdbescherming Noord, because in the situation that the mother is solely charged with the custody, assistance in the voluntary framework is sufficient. The expiry of the supervision order for the mother therefore say, other than the father thinks a specific reason for the request to his authority terminated been.


5.3
Although the father seems to be doing better after a difficult period , he remains vulnerable as a result of his psychiatric problems. The father was admitted to a closed institution last year with judicial authorization . At the moment he is still dependent on medication and intensive assistance (mentor, administrator , E). Worryingly, the father has not always proven medication compliance. The worrying behavioral change (suspicion and distrust ) of the father, as it became visible in the autumn of 2015 and ultimately was the prelude to the placement of the children in the home , also had its cause in phasing out medication against the advice of the doctors involved.


5.4
It has turned out that things are now going well with the minor1 and the minor2, due to circumstances. They are satisfied with the current situation. The one-headed authority of the mother has brought them the necessary rest. As described in their letters to the court, the minor1 and the minor2 now experience more clarity.


5.5
On the basis of the above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there have been changed circumstances as referred to in Section 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code and that it has become plausible that there is an unacceptable risk that the minor1 and the minor2 would get stuck or lost between the parents if the joint authority continues / resumes . The Court of Appeal finds that joint custody in this specific situation causes too much stress for the minor1 and the minor2. Until recently, the family guardian could still play a mediating role between the parents , but this has not been the case since the end of the supervision order .


5.6
Given (the nature of) father's problems, this situation cannot be expected to improve in the short term. As a result of his illness, the father has for almost four years been unable to adequately implement parental authority . In addition, the father continues to disqualify the mother in her parent role . This makes it impossible for the parents to make joint decisions about the children .

The parents have previously tried to improve their mutually disturbed relationship via a trajectory at F. Partly due to a lack of cooperation from the father , this did not work out at the time. Shortly thereafter the supervision order was pronounced. Also the efforts of the family guardian have not been able to positively influence the relationship between the parents . The family guardian ran into the strong beliefs and own ideas of the father . These stood in the way of constructive cooperation. Moreover, the father was sometimes difficult to reach.


5.7
The father is afraid that without authority he will no longer see the children . However, the court is not afraid of that. The file shows that the mother has always been open to a place for the father in the children 's lives . However, the father himself was not able to do this for a long time because of his personal problems. It appears that the children still regularly visit grandma and aunt father's side . Concrete steps have recently been taken through the G (G) to restore contact between the father and the childrento work. It is precisely the one-headed authority that the mother has given room for this. In addition, the G intermediary gives the mother the necessary confidence and a sense of security . It is clear to the court that single-headed authority has never been mother's intention. However, due to the situation that arose, she could not help but make this request. The interests of the children have always been paramount. The mother would have liked it differently for and with the father .


5.8
The Court of Appeal finds that the court wrongly only art. 1: 251a of the Dutch Civil Code, and that, in addition to the provisions of art. 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code, the authority of the father has been terminated, on the condition that the mother is only charged with the authority . The Court of Appeal will therefore annul the decision, and again lawfully determine that the joint custody is terminated and that this is now due to the mother .


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the grievances fail. However, the court of appeal will annul the contested decision and decide as follows.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

Annuls the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Assen, of

November 14, 2018 and again having:

stipulates that the joint custody must be terminated and that the custody of the minor1, born in 2002, and the minor2, born in 2007, will in future fall to the mother ;

declares this decision (so far) enforceable in stock;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. GM van der Meer, EBEM Rikaart-Gerard and

C. Koopman, assisted by Mr. DM Welbergen as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 3 October 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 8117