Content indication
Distribution of care and upbringing duties, request to hear a minor .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-07-02
Publication date
2019-07-24
Case number
200.253.538 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 9105
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.253.538 / 01

Case number court: C / 15/275410 / FA RK 18-3422

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 2 July 2019 concerning

the father ,

living at home,

applicant in principal appeal,

defendant in an incidental appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the father ,

MA Stammes, Amsterdam, lawyer,

and

the mother ,

living at home,

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in an incidental appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother ,

lawyer: MMP Gerrits in Wijchen.

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the Noord-Holland court, location Haarlem, (hereinafter referred to as: the court) of 24 October 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The father appealed on 24 January 2019 against the aforementioned decision of 24 October 2018.


2.2
On March 21, 2019, the mother filed a statement of defense including an incidental appeal.


2.3
On 1 May 2019, the father submitted a statement of defense to the incidental appeal.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 8 May 2019. Appeared are:

- the father , assisted by his lawyer;

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. DM van Dijk.

The father 's lawyer submitted pleading notes at the hearing.


3 The facts

3.1
The father and the mother (hereinafter collectively referred to as: the parents ) had a short relationship, from which the minor (hereinafter referred to as: the minor ) was born in 2010. The father recognized the minor . The parents are jointly responsible for custody of the minor . the minor lives with the mother , her partner and their both son, born in 2012.


3.2
In (between) the disposal of the Court of April 19, 2011, a temporary breakdown of the care and upbringing between the parents (hereinafter: care arrangements ) which established the minors and the father are entitled dealings with each other have every Friday 8.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. and once every three weeks also on Saturdays to 5.30 p.m., the minor sleeping with the father from Friday to Saturday . The decision regarding the definitive care scheme has been reserved.


3.3
By order of the court of 26 July 2011, a contribution to be paid by the father to the mother in the costs of care and upbringing of the minor was determined from € 3,000 for the year 2010, € 1,800 for the period January to and with June 2011 and € 300 per month from 1 July 2011.


3.4
From the minutes of the session of the court in court, held on December 15, 2011, shows that the parents have made in addition to the interim decision of April 19, 2011, further agreements on the care arrangements and that they have agreed to turn a mediator to make binding agreements that would undertake to lead the parents one for underage appropriate care arrangements , including holiday regulations, and agree that capture scheme.


3.5
In (final) decision of the court on July 3, 2012 is a definitive care arrangements established with the minor one week on Friday from 08.30 to 19.30 at the father's residence and the other week from Friday 8:30 pm to Saturday 17:30. In addition, a holiday and holiday arrangement has been determined.


3.6
By oral decision of 24 August 2012, the preliminary relief judge in the court refused the provisions requested by the father , including a change in the care regulation .


3.7
By order of the court of 13 February 2013, with modification to the extent of the order of 26 July 2011, the contribution to be paid by the father to the mother in the costs of care and upbringing of the minor from 1 March 2012 on zero.


3.8
By judgment in summary proceedings of 11 June 2013, the preliminary relief judge in the court refused the provisions requested by the father , including an amendment to the care regulations .


3.9
In (between) decision of the court on February 19, 2014, to amend the extent of the decision of July 3, 2012, during a mediation with the Lorentz House till would further decide, temporary care arrangements established, the minor one week from Friday after school until 19:30 and the other week from Friday after school until Saturday 17.30 at the father resides. The decision regarding the definitive care scheme has been reserved.


3.10
By judgment in interlocutory proceedings of 28 December 2015, the judge in interlocutory proceedings refused the provisions requested by the father , including an amendment to the care regulations, in court .


3.11
In (final) decision of the court on April 20, 2016 is modified to the extent the decision of February 19, 2014, a final health care legislation which established the minor once every two weeks from Friday after school until Sunday 17:00 at the father resides. In addition, an arrangement has been established for public holidays and holidays.


3.12
By order of this court on December 20, 2016 is the standard adopted by the Court in the aforesaid decision of April 20, 2016 care arrangements energized and, with annulment of the decision of the court in so far as regards the vacations and holidays stipulates that minors during the summer holidays in odd years the first three consecutive weeks are with the father and the next three consecutive weeks with the mother , and in even years the first three consecutive weeks with the mother and the next three consecutive weeks with the father , that the minor the spring break at themother stays and the autumn holiday with the father , that during the May holiday in the odd years the minor stays with the father the first week and the second week with the mother and in the even years the first week with the mother and the second week with the father father , that the minor during the Christmas holidays 2016-2017 during the first week (in which the Christmas days fall) stays with the mother and the second week (in which the New Year falls) with the father , and further in the odd years the first week with the father stays and the second week with themother , and in the even years the first week stays with the mother and the second week with the father . Holidays are celebrated with the parent where the minor is currently staying within the framework of the distribution of the care and holiday arrangements.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, the father 's request to - in short - extend the care scheme , as laid down in the orders of the court of 20 April 2016 and the court of 20 December 2016, was rejected. In addition, the father 's request to give the parents reciprocal permission to take the minor holiday for all countries was rejected , as far as the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not advise against going to the destination chosen by one of the parents. to travel.

The father was also, at the request of the mother , ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings, up to the contested decision on the part of the mother estimated at € 1,086 for the salary of the lawyer and € 291 in court fees.


4.2
In principal appeal asks the father , with annulment of the contested decision in so far and modification of the court orders of April 20, 2016 and the court of December 20, 2016 to the extent, a care arrangement to be determined, the father of the minor take one week out of school on Thursday afternoon and take it to school on Friday morning or, if the minor does not go to school, take it to the mother , and the other week take it out of school on Thursday afternoon and take it to school on Monday morning, or if the minor not go to school, on Tuesday at 8.30 a.m. and, in addition to the current holiday arrangement, to determine that during the holidays the minor is taken from school on Friday by the relevant parent and taken back to school on Monday and that during the holidays even years with Easter, including Good Friday and Easter Monday, with the father and with Pentecost, including Whit Monday , with the mother and during the odd years with Pentecost, including Whit Monday with the father and with Easter, including Good Friday and Easter Monday, with the mother, also with the exchange moments from and to school, at least such a division of care and upbringing duties by determining the court in good justice.

In addition, the father requests that the parents reciprocally grant permission to take the minor holiday for all countries, insofar as the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not advise against traveling to the destination chosen by one of the parents .

Finally, the father requests , as the court understands, to reject the mother 's request to order him to pay the costs of the proceedings at first instance. In addition, he requests, only to the extent that the mother on appeal requests that the father be ordered to pay the costs of proceedings in both instances, to order the mother to pay the costs of proceedings in both instances.


4.3
The mother requests that the request made by the father in principal appeal be rejected. In cross-appeal requests, with the annulment of the contested decision in so far, primarily the father to pay the actual costs incurred by it at first instance and on appeal, namely an amount of € 10756.54, alternatively the father to condemn up to a moderate actual order for costs of € 5,000, plus 21% VAT and the court fees of both agencies, and, alternatively, order the father to pay the costs of proceedings of both agencies in accordance with the liquidation rate.


4.4
The father requests that the mother's request in an incidental appeal be rejected.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The Court of First Instance will first decide on the objection made by the mother at the hearing against the father's defense filed with the Court of Appeal on 1 May 2019 in incidental appeal, as mentioned under 2.3.

The Court of Appeal will disregard the content of the aforementioned defense insofar as it responds to the defense of the mother in principal appeal. An additional written round is not allowed in view of the so-called "two-conclusion rule". It is true that, according to settled case-law in a case such as that relating to the division of care and upbringing duties, the two-conclusion rule may be deviated from, but that cannot take such a form as to be contrary to the principles of a good procedural order, as in this case, in which the procedural document of the father amounts to taking a reply in principal appeal. The Court did not find that other exceptions to this rule, recognized in case law, occur here. TheIn addition, the father had the opportunity, during the oral hearing of the Court of Appeal, to give his views on the defense of the mother orally .

Hearing minor


5.2
The father has the court, with reference to Article 809, first paragraph, of the Code of Civil Procedure, Code 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and the corresponding recommendations of the UN Children's Rights Committee ( General Comments), requested to hear the minor . According to the father , the minor has repeatedly indicated in recent years that he wants to see (and speak to) the father more. the minor has never been heard by a representative and has the right to make his opinion known. The minor is doing well , he is a smart boy and there is no evidence that hearing him would be harmful to his development , the father said .

The mother , in turn, argues that hearing the minor conflicts with his important interests. He is only nine years old. It is harmful to his development to hear him and thereby make him part of the procedure between the parents . In addition, the interests of the minor have already been sufficiently highlighted in the documents submitted by the Lorentz House and the advice of the council at first instance, emphasizing that the minor benefits from rest. According to the mother, the father 's request to hear the minor serves therefore be rejected.


5.3
The court considers as follows.

In cases concerning minors , such as this case, the judge can, on the basis of Article 809 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv), give a minor who has not yet reached the age of twelve the opportunity to express his opinion on a method to be determined by the court. Given the text of the law, this is not an obligation, but a competence of the judge. The Court of Appeal sees no reason in the present case to make use of this power. The Court of Appeal takes into account that the minor , who is only nine years old, has been in an upbringing situation almost all his life that is characterized by struggle between the parents . That the minor has themselves expressed the wish to be heard has not been stated or proved. The Court of Appeal assumes that there is a major loyalty conflict with the minor and that it is in his interest that peace comes. The Lorentz House concluded at the end of 2015 that it is important for the minor that he is not involved in conflicts between the parents by, for example, discussing this with him and that he needs rest. In view of this, the court considers it plausible that hearing by the court, even now, will be taxing for the minor and will cause him unrest. That the Lorentz house is the minor has not spoken one-to-one, this does not change. Moreover, the court of the father wants to assume that the minor has expressed against him the wish to be able to see him more, which is also not disputed by the mother . Seen in this light, the father , who also exercises custody of the minor , has also been heard in his role as representative of the minor (cf. HR March 29, 2002, ECLI: NL: HR: 2002: AD8191 ).

It does not follow from Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) that the judge is simply obliged to hear a minor under the age of twelve, even if one of the other parties involved so requests. Now that for the rest it has not turned out that circumstances have led to the hearing of the minor being designated by the court in person, the requirements of Article 12 of the CRC have been met. Finally, the Court of Appeal considered that the father 's appeal to the Supreme Court ruling of 1 November 2013 ( ECLI: NL: HR: 2013: 1084 ) failed, because it was a minor in that caseconcerned who had already reached the age of twelve and in that case Article 809 DCCP requires the judge to give the minor the opportunity to give his opinion in a case such as this . In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal sees no reason to instruct the council to enter into a discussion with the minor or to appoint a special guardian for that purpose , as the father argued at the hearing on appeal.

in principal appeal

Care scheme


5.4
At the discretion of the court of appeal, the care arrangement between the father and the minor comes first . Pursuant to Section 1: 253a of the Dutch Civil Code, the Court of Appeal will take such a decision as it would appear to be desirable in the interests of the minor .


5.5
The father believes that his court application to extend the care arrangement between him and the minor wrongly rejected. The father disputes that the proposed expansion of the care scheme will lead to more unrest. Contrary to what the mother claims, there will no longer have to be coordination between the parents about practical matters. the minor is becoming more independent, which means that coordination between the parents will be less necessary. Moreover, communication between parents takes placeon various issues. In view of the age of the minor and his wish to see the father more, extending the care scheme is in the best interests of the minor . The father also considers it to be in the interests of the minor and himself that he can bring the minor to school in the morning. The closing letter from the Lorentz House of 2 December 2015 shows that a weekend arrangement whereby the minor stayed at school with the father until Monday turned out to work well. That the minor more than three years after this letter would still suffer from the tensions between the parents , is not justified by the court. the minor does not suffer from changes of residence . Furthermore contains the father proposed care arrangement only changes in school instead of - now unpleasant running - changes in the mother's home.


5.6
The mother argues that the court has rightly rejected the father 's request to extend the care scheme . The mother , together with the council , the Lorentz house and the court, believes that an expansion of the care scheme will lead to more unrest and conflict between the parents , which is not in the minor's interest. By the father proposed health care legislation will lead to tense situations at school and extra changes for minors , which he does suffer from. In addition, the arrangement proposed by the father requires more coordination between the parents on matters such as school supplies, activities after school and homework. This while the communication between the parents , contrary to what the father claims, is dramatic. The Lorentzhuis has expressly concluded that communication between the parents must be limited as much as possible and that contact between the parents should be as little as possible . the minor thrive in the current care arrangement, but suffers from the fact that the father always invades the family situation of the minor and the mother and keeps looking for confrontation. Both the council and the Lorentz house agree that the minor suffers from the tensions that constantly flare up as a result of the procedures started by the father . The father refuses to recognize that extending the care scheme is not in the best interests of the minor . according to the mother, the minor needs rest and clarity.


5.7
At the hearing on appeal, the Council advised it to ratify the contested decision, to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court of appeal. What care legislation also establishes a no-load basis lacking before. The council can imagine that there is a major loyalty conflict with the minor . It is important that the litigation between the parents is stopped and that the minor gets a rest. It is therefore not in the interests of the minor to order a council investigation or to hear him, according to the council .


5.8
The court considers as follows.

It has been found that the relationship between the On the basis of the pieces, and the discussion at the hearing parents serious is disturbed . They are more than eight years embroiled in a legal battle over include the care arrangements between the father and now the nine year old minor . The present appeal procedure is the ninth procedure that is being conducted between the parents on this subject. In the context of the many legal proceedings from the past, the necessary interventions have taken place. In the beginning of 2012, for example, the parents tried to reach agreements about the care scheme through mediationand participated in 2014 and 2015 in the “Children from the Knel” trajectory at the Lorentzhuis and in a follow-up trajectory in which they tried to reach agreement with the help of people from their networks. All this has not meant that the parents have come closer together or otherwise a steady care arrangements between the father and the minor is established. As already considered in the order of this court of 20 December 2016, mediation by the Lorentzhuis has only made it clear to all concerned that improving communication between parentsis not feasible and it is best that they have as little contact with each other in the future so that the tensions remain as low as possible.

The Court of Appeal finds that more than three years after this mediation, the situation between the parents is virtually unchanged. The communication between them still runs very slowly, as is evident from the submitted e-mail correspondence between the parents about school activities and children's parties of the minor and from what the parents about it stated at the hearing. Also the transfer time on Sunday evening expires, just as was the case at the time of the decision of this court of 20 December 2016, according to both parents unpleasant. Every communication between the parents bringstensions with them. the minor receives such tensions . This is evident from the closing letter from the Lorentz House, in which it appears that they got to know the minor as a sensitive boy who is quite alert when it comes to tensions with his parents . In addition, the council has indicated that it can imagine that there is a major loyalty conflict with the minor . Moreover, the Council has repeatedly emphasized that it is in the interests of the minor that it is the parentsstop litigation and that there will be peace. This was also emphasized by the Lorentz House at the end of 2015.

To the peace and stability of the minor as far as possible to ensure the court deems it in its interest to the healthcare scheme expand to as the father was asked. In determining a care arrangement in accordance with the wishes of the father will be more changes to the whereabouts of the minor are, which in itself is unsettled him. The Court of Appeal considers it plausible that more coordination should take place between parents about practical matters, which in the given situation will lead to increasing tensionsbetween parties that will have an impact on the minor .

Regarding the extension of the care arrangement with a night of Sunday to Monday after intercourse weekend of the minor to the father , as the session was discussed on appeal and the rules under the Lorentz House well worked, the Court of Appeal considered - as in his decision of 20 December 2016 - that it is in the best interests of the minor that after an intercourse with the father on Sunday evening he can stay in his primary parenting situation with the mother and see his half-brother before he and his next day half brother starts school week again.

In view of the foregoing, the court will confirm the contested decision in so far as the request of the father to - briefly - extension of the care arrangement between him and the minor has been rejected.

Substitution permission holiday


5.9
The Court of Appeal will grant the father 's request to give the parents reciprocal permission to take the minor holiday for all countries, insofar as the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not advise against the destination chosen by one of the parents to travel.

The parents exercise joint custody of the minor . For joint custody it is necessary that the parents are able to make decisions of any interest about their child in joint consultation, or at least be able to make agreements about situations that may occur with regard to their child . The father has made his request for substitute permission to prevent future conflicts between the parents . Apparently he assumes that the parentswill not be able to hold constructive consultations on this and to make agreements on holiday destinations of the minor , although in his own words the communication between parties is going well. Allocation of the father 's request means that consultation and making agreements about the minor 's holiday destinations and informing each other about this can be avoided in advance. Although the Lorentzhuis has previously concluded that communication between the parents should be limited as much as possible, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that this situation is undesirableis. If there is an intention to take the minor abroad, the parents should inform each other of the travel destination, the duration of the trip and the stay and of possibly other relevant matters, such as contact details. In addition, both parents must agree to such a journey and must be able to decide on this, each time on the basis of the facts and circumstances and interests of the minor that are relevant at that time . The Court of Appeal assumes that constructive communication and coordination by the parents about this is in any case still possible, despite the tensions between them.

in principal and incidental appeal

Process costs


5.10
The Court of Appeal will jointly discuss the complaints made by the parties in the principal and incidental appeal concerning the costs of proceedings at first instance, as well as the requests with regard to the costs of the appeal proceedings, in view of their mutual coherence.


5.11
The father argues that the court wrongly ordered him to pay the costs of the proceedings at first instance. He argues that one of his requests was granted at first instance while all the woman's requests were rejected and that he was also successful in various previous proceedings, not all of which were initiated by him.

Furthermore, the father is of the opinion that the court wrongly did not include his move to place of residence in her judgment. This relocation implies a change of circumstances that justifies the father 's request to extend the care scheme , which was adopted almost three years ago. This is all the more true now that the father 's request is broadly in line with the arrangement that the Lorentzhuis considered a good arrangement. The father disputes that there is unnecessary and light litigation on his part. The father always has first contact and consultation with the motherwanted, but the mother does not move until a court decision has been made. He states that the procedure has been brought because the mother of the implementation of the care regime wishes to discuss with him. For that reason, he requests that the mother be ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings in both instances, but only if the mother also so requests in the appeal.


5.12
The mother takes the view that the father was rightly ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings at first instance, but that the conviction was wrongly not related to all the actual costs incurred by her, but only to the costs estimated on the basis of the liquidation rate. She requests that the father be ordered to pay the actual costs of the proceedings in both instances. She argues that the father makes improper use of the right to litigation. In the past few years, he has initiated nine proceedings against the mother against the express advice of the courts and the counciland into the Lorentz house. These requests have always been largely or completely rejected. The father refuses to abide by the judgments and continues to conduct unnecessary proceedings, thereby achieving the opposite of what he desires and knowingly harming the minor welfare. The father must stop legally stalking the mother and unnecessarily chasing her. A strong signal must be given to the father that he must stop unnecessary litigation for the sole purpose of incurring costs and damaging the mother , the mother said .

The (conditional) request by the father to order the mother to pay the costs of the proceedings in both instances must, according to the mother , be rejected,


5.13
The court considers as follows.

Now that the mother has requested that the father be ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings in both instances, the condition under which the father , for his part, has applied for an appeal against the mother in the proceedings in both instances is fulfilled. However, in view of the outcome of the proceedings at first instance and on appeal, the court sees no reason to order the mother to pay the costs of these proceedings. The father 's requests are therefore rejected.

The documents in the case file and the hearing has shown that parents almost the entire life of the minors are engaged in a legal battle over (among other things) the care arrangements between the father and the minor . In the past, both the Lorentz House and the council have emphasized that it is in the best interests of the minor is that parties stop litigation and that peace comes. In view of this, the court and the court of appeal attempted to lay down a clear regulation in 2016, which, according to the parties, continues to be positive in itself. With the initiation of this procedure at first instance and with the lodging of an appeal, the father always breaks through the rest that is thus deemed to be in the best interests of the minor . The present appeal proceedings on appeal is the eighth procedure - of the nine procedures on the care arrangements - which the father has brought. In the opinion of the court, the foregoing shows that the fatherdoes not take sufficient account of the difficult situation in which the minor is located and the negative effects thereof on the minor . This is further illustrated by the fact that the father, after the earlier decision of this court, despite the mother's known objections to this and - as he stated at the hearing - stated without any consultation with her, by place of residence has moved and is now within walking distance of the mother and the minor . Apparently the father wentassume that the distance between the parties' places of residence at the time was the only reason for the court to reject its requests to extend the care scheme . In so doing, he made an incorrect reading of the recitals in that decision.

Looking at all this, the court agrees with the court's decision to order the father to pay the costs of the proceedings at first instance. Furthermore, on the same grounds, the court sees reason to order the father to pay the costs of the main appeal.

However, the court sees insufficient cause for the integral cost convictions advocated by the woman. According to established case law of the Supreme Court (including HR 6 April 2012, ECLI: NL: HR: 2012: BV7828 ), this is only possible under exceptional circumstances, such as when there is abuse.procedural law or the unlawful opening of proceedings. This is the case if, in view of the manifestly unfounded nature of the request, a request should have been omitted in connection with the interests of the other party concerned. This can be the case if the claimant bases his request on facts and circumstances for which he knew or should have known the inaccuracy, or on propositions and circumstances for which he had to understand in advance that they had no chance of success. Restraint is appropriate in view of the right of access to justice, which is partly guaranteed by Article 6 of the ECHR. In the light of this strict standard, the mother did not put forward enough to justify a conviction in the actual costs of the proceedings.

The court of appeal will therefore reject the primary and subsidiary request of the mother in an incidental appeal.


5.14
The contested decision will therefore also be upheld on the issue of costs. The court of appeal will set the costs of the principal appeal on the part of the mother at € 324 in court fees and € 2,148 in lawyer's salary in accordance with the liquidation rate (2 points x rate II) on appeal.


5.15
The costs of the incidental appeal procedure will be compensated in the usual way, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.


5.16
The above leads to the following decision.


6 Decision
The court:

in principal appeal

endorses the decision whose appeal is subject to the judgment of the court;

orders the father to pay the costs of the principal appeal, up to this judgment on the part of the mother set at € 324 in court fees and € 2,148 in lawyer salary ;

declares this cost order enforceable in stock;

rejects the more or otherwise requested;

in an incidental appeal

endorses the decision whose appeal is subject to the judgment of the court;

compensates for the costs of the incidental appeal in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by AVT de Bie, GW Brands-Bottema and L. van Dijk, in the presence of A. Paats as clerk and was pronounced in public by the oldest counsel on 2 July 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 2635