Content indication
Authority . End of joint custody due to seriously disturbed parent relationship , caused by sexual abuse of one of the children by the father .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-05-09
Publication date
2019-05-22
Case number
200.247.324 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
EB 2019/77
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.247.324 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 18/176921 / FA RK 17-1804)

decision of 9 May 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

attorney: currently AE van Nimwegen in Delfzijl, formerly HLP Fauser in Delfzijl,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. E. Henkelman in Groningen.


1 1. The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen of 6 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 5 October 2018;

- the defense with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Fauser of 10 October 2018 with production (s);

- a letter from the Council for Child Protection (hereinafter the Board ) on October 18, 2018;

- a journal report from mr. Van Nimwegen of 5 March 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Van Nimwegen of 4 April 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Van Nimwegen of 5 April 2019 with production (s);

- a fax message from Van Nimwegen on 11 April 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 11 April 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. Mrs. C appeared on behalf of the council . Mr. Van Nimwegen also spoke on the basis of a pleading document submitted by her.


3 The facts

3.1
The parties entered into a registered partnership on 19 March 2013 , which expired

April 8, 2016 has been dissolved .


3.2
Parties are the parents of the minor1 (hereafter also the minor1), born in

December 19, 2013.


3.3
The mother's family also includes the minor2 (hereafter also the minor2), born in 2003.


3.4
Both children have their main residence with the mother .


3.5
On May 19, 2017 On the hearing before the court, department criminal law , the investigation in the criminal case of the father's place. By judgment of the court of

June 2, 2017, it has been proven that the father has multiple times between February 5, 2015 and January 2016 in A, at least once with the minor2 (who has reached the age of 12 but has not yet reached the age of 16) one or more abusive acts committed that include the sexual invasion of the body. He was also sentenced to 15 months' imprisonment, of which five months were suspended.


3.6
By judgment in summary proceedings of 16 August 2017, the preliminary relief judge - in anticipation of the proceedings on the authority and the relationship between the father and the minor1 - asked the council to report and advise on the contact arrangement. The contact arrangement has been suspended pending the proceedings on the merits.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The parties have joint authority over the minor1. The contested decision provides, as far as it is relevant here, that from now on the mother only exercises parental authority over the minor1 and that the mother is obliged to send information about the minor1 to the father at least once a month . The court further noted that the mother as a parent can determine for herself that there is no interaction .


4.2
The father appealed against the contested decision with three complaints. The grievances are on the authority . The father requests, as further supplemented at the hearing, to uphold the appeal and to annul the decision of the court and, in the alternative, to have the council carry out an investigation and to submit a report and advice to the court on whether joint parental authority over the minor1 would be in the best interests of the minor1.


4.3
The mother puts forward a defense and asks the father in the action to declare it inadmissible, or at least to deny it, to ratify the contested decision, or at least the minutes of the oral judgment, whether or not with improvement of the grounds.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Section 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code, the court may, at the request of the parents who are not married to each other or of one of them, terminate the joint custody if afterwards the circumstances have changed or the decision on the basis of which the joint authority arose incorrect or incomplete data. The judge can then determine that custody of a child belongs to one of them if:

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child might become trapped or lost between the parents and that it is not expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future, or

b. a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child .


5.2
It appears that the parties after the dissolution of the registered partnership a care arrangement between the father agreed and minderjarige1. When was the mother already known that the father of the minderjarige2 sexually had abused . Nevertheless, contact took place initially , but it stopped after June 9, 2017, when the seriousness of the sexual abuse due to the settlement of the criminal case fully dawned on the mother . In particular, the risk of recidivism and the uncertainty about the reason for the abuseand how this could happen played a role in this. In view of this, the Court of Appeal finds that the circumstances have changed after the dissolution of the registered partnership .


5.3
On the basis of the documents and the proceedings at the hearing, the Court of Appeal considered itself sufficiently informed to take a decision - taking into account the aforementioned assessment framework. Contrary to what was requested on behalf of the father (in the alternative), the Court of Appeal, like the council , does not consider that a council investigation is required.


5.4
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it has become plausible that there is an unacceptable risk that the minor1 will get stuck or lost between the parents and that it is not to be expected that there will be sufficient improvement within the foreseeable future. The Court of Appeal considers this as follows.


5.5
The father was in 2017 criminally prosecuted for sexually abusing his stepdaughter the minderjarige2. As a result, he was sentenced to 15 months' imprisonment, 5 months of which was conditional and compulsory treatment by D (D). In the meantime, the father has served his unconditional sentence and very recently had his intake at the D for the aforementioned compulsory treatment. After the crime has become known, the father hasEven though help was sought at the D and from detention he was referred to the GGZ for treatment. He also had conversations with the probation service. All this, however, has not, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, led to the father having sufficient insight into his problems and the reasons for the sexual abuse . The father has sexually abused the minor2 (in any case) three times (in a period of one year). He knew this was wrong, but he did it over and over again and the seriousness of the abuse increased. The abuse only stopped when the minor2 the mothertold about this (if requested). From the probation report of

March 10, 2017 it appears that the father only partly takes responsibility for his (offense) behavior, but some also places it with the minor2. Across the board , the father about it stated that the sexual abuse is partly a result of the parenting style of the mother and the relationship issues, by mothers caused individual problems. Thus the court was not convinced of the father 's insight into (the cause of) his actions. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, this means that it remains unclear for the mother what happened to the fatherthe cause was that he led to the abuse of the minor2. As a result, the risk of recidivism is also difficult to estimate. Although the father states that the probation advice and the GGZ report show that the risk of recidivism for sexual offenses is considered low, the probation advice also shows that the father 's lack of insight into his problems and his motives is indeed a risk factor is. The D process has also only recently started with an intake, so that there is not yet a complete picture of the chance of recidivism applying to the father .


5.6
For joint custody requires that the parents are able to properly joint exercise of authority and that decisions of any importance about their child can take jointly. The documents and what emerged at the hearing shows that the confidence of the mother in the father and the relationship between the parents seriously be disturbed . The fear of recurrence, the lack of clarity about the cause of the sexual abuse and the failure of the father to assume full responsibilityfor his actions, is (partly) underlying this. In the light of the foregoing and in view of the difficult communication between the parties as a result of this, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal there is an unacceptable risk that the minor1 will get stuck or lost between the parties, while it is not to be expected that this will happen within the foreseeable future. time improvement will come. Another factor is that , according to her statements at the hearing, the mother suffers from an enormous sense of guilt with regard to the father 's actions and the fact that she was unable to protect the minor2 . There is also a major loyalty conflict with the mothertowards the minor2 when she has to contact the father for decisions about the minor1 . This hinders her in her ability to communicate and consult with the father . The Court of Appeal considers that a joint exercise of custody will have a disruptive effect on the minor's family situation1, which means that the parents will not be able to properly exercise joint authority , such that the minor1 will not get stuck or lost between the parents . The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that on the basis of the above of the motherit cannot reasonably be required to decide together with the father in matters concerning the minor1 and that, for that reason, custody of the minor1 should be the sole responsibility of the mother .


6 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will ratify the contested decision, to the extent that it is subject to its judgment.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the District Court of North Netherlands, location Groningen, of 6 July 2018 to the extent that it is subject to its judgment;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. GM van der Meer, JG Idsardi and GBA Brummer, assisted by IG Vos as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 9 May 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 4089