Content indication
Prolongation of supervision under supervision is necessary in connection with the child's own problems and interaction problems .
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-07-09
Publication date
2019-07-30
Case number
200.244.807 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.244.807 / 01

Court case number: C13 / 646276 / JE K 18-359

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 9 July 2019 concerning

the mother ,

living at home,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: mr. ND t Zand in Amsterdam,

and

the certified institution Youth Protection Region Amsterdam,

Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The following are considered as stakeholders:

- the father (hereinafter referred to as: the father );

- the minor A to be named after (hereinafter referred to as: child A);

- the minor B after this (hereafter to be referred to as: child B).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board , located in The Hague, location: Amsterdam

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the decision of the juvenile court in the Amsterdam District Court of 25 May 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 24 August 2018 against the aforementioned decision of 25 May 2018.


2.2
The GI submitted a statement of defense on 4 October 2018.


2.3
The father submitted a statement of defense as an interested party on 5 October 2018.


2.4
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a journal report from the woman of 26 November 2018 with appendices (productions 5 to 22), received on 27 November 2018;

- a journal report from the woman of 29 November 2018 with an attachment (production 23), received by fax on the same date;

- a journal report from the woman of 30 November 2018 with an attachment (production 24), received by fax on the same date;

- a journal report from the woman of 25 April 2019 with appendices (productions 25 to 31), received by fax on the same date;

- a journal report from the man of 2 May 2019 with appendices (productions 5 to 22), received on 3 May 2019;

- a letter from the GI of 2 May 2019 with appendices (appendices 11 to 18), received on 6 May 2019;

- a journal report from the woman of 14 May 2019 with appendices (productions 32 to 37), received by fax on the same date.


2.5
The oral hearing took place on 6 December 2018. The hearing of the case was held at the hearing in connection with the mother 's lawyer presenting a considerable amount of productions too late, while the documents are large and difficult to understand. The case was resumed on May 17, 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the GI, represented by the family manager;

- the father , assisted by his lawyer;

- the council , represented by mr. V. Aelbers, accompanied by an intern.


3 The facts

3.1
The marriage of the mother and the father , which has since been dissolved by divorce , gave birth to: child A, in 2009 and child B, in 2012 (hereinafter collectively referred to as: the children ). The mother and father jointly exercise authority over the children .


3.2
child A and child B have been under the supervision of the GI since 8 June 2015 .


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, the supervisory status of Child A and Child B extended until June 7, 2019.


4.2
The mother requests, with the annulment of the contested decision, to cancel the custody and, as the court understands, to reject the introductory request to extend the custody of the children .


4.3
The GI requests that the mother 's request be rejected and that the contested decision be confirmed.


4.4
The father requests that the mother 's request be rejected and that the contested decision be confirmed.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The next item is whether the supervision has been correctly and correctly extended.


5.2
The mother argues that the supervision is only aimed at establishing contact between the father and the children , while the Supreme Court has ruled that this is not allowed. The other goals such as gaining insight into the mother-child relationship and the children 's toilet training can be achieved within the voluntary framework. Furthermore, the mother argues that establishing contact between the children and the father is not in their interest. On the contrary, this threatens their mental and physical development . childA becomes ill after the intercourse and gets a rash. child A does not want to see her father , but they do not listen to it. The father 's contact with child A also hinders the recovery of PTSD complaints from the mother, according to an email from her practitioner. The mother has no faith in the Family Supporters supervisors . The supervision order brings her a lot of stress .


5.3
The GI argues that the objectives of the supervision order have not yet been achieved. The safety of the children must be guaranteed. A supervision order is needed to remove the serious development threat from the children . There was no contact between the father and the children in the period from 19 June 2018 to 11 September 2018 and from 13 November 2018 to the present . The contact could not be supervised , because the mother gave up trust in Family Supporters, after it was mentioned there that thefather had seen that the mother would have driven a red light.

The GI does not understand where the mother 's resistance to the contact between the children and their father comes from, since the contact with the father went well in the first instance. Family Supporters also has no worries about the course of the contact. The father knows how to meet the needs of the children . The mother has indicated that the children become ill before and after the contact. It must be investigated what causes this tension . child A claims to have been beaten by father in the past, but has an incoherent and inconsistent story about that, according to the GI.


5.4
The father states that the supervision order was rightly extended. Although 'pure' access supervision is not allowed, the concerns relate not only to the contact between the father and the children but also to averting other threats in the development of the children . In addition, the mother is not at all willing to cooperate in the voluntary framework. When a counselor says something that she does not like, she immediately submits a complaint. As far as the fatherknown, none of those complaints has ever been upheld. The mother finds herself unreachable for the GI and saddles child A with incorrect suspicions of sexual abuse by the father . child A shows no resistance at all in the presence of the father . The mother under the supervision order does not come to her own treatment, is not on the supervision order , but the fact that the mother does not cooperate with Family Supporter. The mother has requested the writtento declare the designation of the GI setting out the objectives to be achieved with the supervision order entirely void. By order of March 22, 2019, the Amsterdam District Court rejected this request.


5.5
The council advises the court to ratify the contested decision. According to the council , there are serious concerns about both the environment in which the children grow up and the development of the children . It is very important for the children that they have contact with both parents , unless there are serious objections. That has not been demonstrated in the present case. The children need information from both parents in order to achieve a balanced development . In addition, being able to form a personal image of both parentsnecessary. The children are not currently given the opportunity to form their own image of their father . Child signals are still being referred to and these may be caused by social problems. The children have been in a stressful situation for years, with their parents constantly struggling. The Council is of the opinion that if such concerns exist, the right help should be deployed to resolve those concerns. The assistance is necessary for the child's own problems, but also for complex onesissues that relate to interaction . The father must also be involved in this. The council looked at the continuation of the measure and warns the mother that the end of the acceptable period is approaching. It is therefore important for the mother to take steps in the interest of her children .


5.6
The file and the proceedings at the hearing showed that the children have been under the supervision of the GI since 8 June 2015 . The mother has serious objections to the father 's contact with the children because of her own experiences with the father from the past. The children have not been in contact with the father since 13 November 2018 , because the mother has canceled her trust in Family Supporters. It has also been found that the GI and the council have the mother 's concerns regarding contact with thenot recognize father . The community center rated the contact between the children and the father as positive, Altra also saw that the children showed affection to the father during the interaction moments and there were no signs of sexual abuse by the father from psychosexual screening . The written instruction given has yielded no results so far.


5.7
The Court of Appeal considered that extending the supervision order implies interference with the family life of parents and children . Conflicts concerning the establishment or maintenance of a visitation arrangement can therefore only justify the extension of the supervision order if these, either alone or in combination with other circumstances, pose a serious development threat to the minor and the assistance necessary for the removal thereof threat is not, or is not sufficiently, accepted (cf. HR 13 April 2001,ECLI: NL: HR: 2001: AB1009 , NJ 2002/4 and HR 19 February 2016, ECLI: NL: HR: 2016: 295 ). Such a situation exists in this case.


5.8
Because of the struggle between the parents , the children have been living in a serious loyalty conflict for years . The children show child signals ; they are very sick, have abdominal pain, are nauseous, get a rash and have toilet and sleeping problems, the origin of which is not clear. This may be related to the problems related to dealing . The court agrees with the council that it is in the interest of the children to be able to form their own image about their father . Currently the children have no contact with the father at alland their image of the father is formed by information from the mother . In the opinion of the court, the mother did not substantiate why contact would not be possible. There was no evidence of any objective objection to contact of the children with the father . All this together makes the children seriously in their development are threatened .


5.9
It has been found that the help provided by the GI is not sufficiently accepted by the mother . Although the mother does call in help for her children , it is limited and does not involve establishing contact with the father . For example, the mother recently again abandoned confidence in Family Supporters. As a result, the assistance is stagnating and father 's contact with the children is not possible. The written instruction given that also sets goals other than establishing contact has had no effect so far. For this reason, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that thechildren do not receive the right, or at least incomplete, help . The children not only need help for the child's problems, such as the PDD-NOS of child A, but also for the interaction problems between the parents . The court also ruled that the extension of the supervision order is necessary because the children seriously in their development are threatened and the necessary assistance to this threatis insufficiently accepted. The above leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

confirms the contested decision.

This decision was made by JMC Louwinger-Rijk, AN van de Beek and J. Kok, in the presence of the clerk, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on 9 July 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 2655