Content indication
Assigned eviction in summary proceedings of tenant of residential and commercial space will stand on appeal. For the time being, it is sufficiently plausible that the tenant had a role in the tense and conflicting situation with other tenants, sub-tenants, local residents and the landlord, who was incidentally also accompanied by (noise) nuisance.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-07-30
Publication date
2019-08-01
Case number
200.242.305 / 01
Procedure
Appeals for interim relief
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN

location Leeuwarden

civil law department, trade

case number court of appeal 200.242.305 / 01

(Case number Court of the Central Netherlands 6756805)

judgment in summary proceedings of 30 July 2019

in the case of

appellant,

residing in A,

appellant,

in first instance: defendant in the claim and claimant in the counterclaim,

hereinafter: appellant,

lawyer: AHA Beijersbergen of Hainaut, with offices in Utrecht,

against

timed,

residing in B,

timed,

in the first instance: plaintiff in convention and defendant in counterclaim

hereinafter: the respondent,

lawyer: R. de Leeuw, LL.M., with offices in Amsterdam.


1 The further course of the appeal proceedings

1.1
The court takes over the content of the interim judgment of 30 April 2019 here.
1.2
The further course after the interim judgment appears from:

the H-12 form of mr. De Leeuw of 5 July 2019 with productions 10 to 23;
the minutes of the parties' party meeting held on 17 July 2019.

1.3
The parties then applied for judgment and the Court of Appeal decided on the documents submitted prior to the competition, supplemented by the minutes of the competition.


2 The established facts

2.1
In the judgment of 30 April 2018, the subdistrict court judge has under legal consideration 2.1. up to and including 2.4, a number of facts have been accepted as established. appellant has (partly) objected to this finding of fact with complaint 1 . With due observance of the objections raised by the appellant against the facts established by the subdistrict court, the following has been established.


2.2
appellant rents:

from 1 August 2017 an office space at a-street 34 B in A (a consultation room), whereby it is also stipulated that use as room occupancy is permitted;
from 1 September 2017 an office space at a-street 34 B in A (an office on the driveway side), whereby it is also stipulated that use as a room occupancy is permitted;
from 1 October 2017 the apartments on the a-street 34-2 BG and 34-3 BG in A;
with effect from 1 October 2017, the business space at a-street 34 B in A (a store plus two adjacent parking spaces).
The rent is always laid down in separate lease agreements.


2.3
Since November 8, 2017, the timed owner of the properties on the a-street 34, 34 A and 34 B in A. Her father owned the properties before that.


2.4
The appellant himself went to live in one of the apartments he rented (34-3 BG).


2.5
The total rent due by the appellant, including additional fees, is € 3,373.50 per month.


2.6
Another part of the business space present in the a-street 34 building is leased by the father of the respondent to real estate agent RotsVast (hereinafter: RotsVast).


2.7
From September 2017, the landlord started receiving complaints and reports from local residents, other tenants and sub-tenants about nuisance caused by the appellant.


2.8
On Tuesday 13 February 2018, an incident occurred with regard to the rented property between the appellant on the one hand and his subtenant of the retail space, Mr C, on the other hand, who had established a takeaway pizza shop under the name "D", and his father on the other hand, as a result of which they all have been injured and have all been detained for several days.


2.9
In a news release published on Monday, February 12, 2018, entitled "Herrie a-street A persists," it is stated among other things:

It remains particularly uneasy about the new take-away pizza restaurant D on the a-street in A. The police are also needed again on Monday afternoon.

The owners of the pizzeria have been struggling for weeks with their landlord, a tenant in the same complex . On Monday, the pizzeria owners had to force their own front door to enter. They were busy with this under the watchful eye of recruited agents.

Police were in large numbers on Friday afternoon because the case threatened to get out of hand. The frustrated take-away bosses wanted to get redress from their landlord. In addition, they changed his scooter. The landlord, in turn, would have threatened to cut down the pizzeria people.

For a moment the rest seemed to have returned on Friday afternoon, after lengthy conversations with agents with both camps. On Friday evening, according to local residents, things went wrong again: the police then needed six cars with agents to restore order. A similar scene took place on Sunday evening and again Monday afternoon.

According to the owner of the lease, her tenant is the problem. The man makes life for his sub-tenants of the pizzeria life hard by slamming doors, turning off the gas and removing the plugs. He teases also brokerage Rotsvast, another tenant in the complex . This company was without heating and without electricity last week. (...)


2.10
appellant filed a report against C on 1 March 2018 for the destruction / damage to his scooter on 9 February 2018.


2.11
The appellant filed a complaint against E on 7 March 2018 for an assault on 5 March 2018. The appellant thereby designated E as someone to whom he had rented a room in the a-street building.


2.12
A staff member of RotsVast has reported it to the appellant

March 13, 2018 vandalizing / scratching her car, parked next to the building at the a-street 34.


2.13
The director of RotsVast has reported libel and defamation against the appellant for posting a message on Facebook from that office on 13 March 2018 that in summary it means that RotsVast is corrupt and cooperates with criminals and fighters. This declaration describes that a conflict has arisen between RotsVast and the appellant about the use of the parking places that belong to buildings 34 and 34 B.


2.14
the appellant has not paid the rent due for the spaces rented by him for the months March 2018 and April 2018. The respondent received these amounts after implementation of the judgment of the subdistrict court judge to be presented below.


2.15
On 4 June 2018, the respondent, on the basis of the judgment of the subdistrict court judge to be presented below, ordered the appellant to be evicted from the aforementioned spaces.


3 The dispute and the decision at first instance

3.1
the respondent has in first instance (in the main action) - in summary - demanded that the appellant be ordered to evacuate within 3 days of service of all that he leased at a-street 34 in A and payment of € 6,747 in unpaid rent tokens for the months of March and April 2018, plus the statutory interest from 1 March 2018 and 1 April 2018 respectively, with the appellant being ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings


3.2
The appellant has - as the subdistrict court judge understood - in first instance (in counterclaim) - demanded - a statement that the entire parking space rented by him belongs to him and that RotsVast may no longer stand up for it and furthermore the conviction of the respondent to payment of:

- € 50,000 for stealing his store;

- € 50,000 for defamation and defamation in the newspaper;

- € 25,000 for violating his privacy, reinforced with a penalty for every day that there are cameras;

- compensation for breach of contract and sabotage;

- € 25,000 due to the use by RotsVast of the parking area;

- € 20,000 due to customer recruitment;

- the total amount of the entire leased property from both her father and herself for the duration of the contract.

Finally, the appellant has demanded that the judge in interlocutory proceedings impose a contact and street ban on E.


3.3
By sub-district court judgment of 30 April 2018, the sub-district court ruled that the appellant's claim was fully granted, declared the appellant inadmissible in the prohibition of street and contact demanded by him, and rejected the appellant's claim. The appellant was ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings, both in the convention and in the counterclaim proceedings.


3.4
To that end, the subdistrict court judge has considered the following.

The unlawful nuisance underlying the claim for eviction, consisting of noise nuisance, intimidating behavior towards intimidated and (sub) tenants and involvement in violent incidents in and near the rented property, has become sufficiently plausible. The probability that the court will decide to terminate the lease agreements and evacuation is so likely that it is justified to anticipate this in summary proceedings. It is not sufficiently plausible that the appellant has a counterclaim on the defendant, so that the claimed rental periods can also be allocated.

In an order to remove the cameras present at the rented property, the appellant has no interest (anymore) because he must leave the rented property.

Because Rogier E is not a party to the proceedings, the appellant cannot be received in his claim to impose a street and contact ban on him . There is no room for a declaration of right in summary proceedings. With regard to the sums demanded by the appellant, no immediate urgency has been found that necessitates an immediate provision, while those claims are also insufficiently proven.


4 The claim on appeal and change of claim

4.1
In the appeal, the appellant claims - in summary - the annulment of the judgment of 30 April 2018 and once again rightly rejecting the claim of the defendant and - as the Court of Appeal has understood - instead of claiming at first instance - the allocation of:

a prohibition on the respondent to enter into direct rental relationships with the appellant's sub-tenants on pain of periodic penalty payments up to a maximum of € 50,000;
a prohibition on the respondent to speak negatively about the appellant in the press on pain of penalties up to a maximum of € 50,000;
a prohibition on the respondent to violate the privacy of the appellant by hanging cameras and allowing her tenants to hang cameras on pain of penalties up to a maximum of € 25,000;
an order to respondents to repair defects and mold, under penalty of a maximum of € 25,000;
an order to the respondent to ensure (whether or not through a code of conduct) that the tenant E behaves towards the appellant or at least avoids contact with the appellant, on pain of a maximum of € 25,000 in penalty payments ;
a conviction of the respondent to comply with the agreement on the parking places towards the appellant on pain of periodic penalty payments of a maximum of € 25,000;
all with an order that the respondent be ordered to pay the costs of both bodies, including reimbursement for subsequent costs, plus statutory interest.


4.2
The respondent has substantively contested these claims, but has not objected to the change in claim as such. Now that the change of claim is also considered of its own motion by the Court of Appeal not to be contrary to the requirements of a proper procedural order, the Court of Appeal will do justice to the counterclaim amended claim on appeal.


4.3
With the change by the appellant to his counterclaim, he has no interest (anymore) in his complaints 5 and 6a up to and including 6d , which assume that the subdistrict court judge should have interpreted his claim as it now stands, or in his complaint 7 , which complains that the subdistrict court judge has misunderstood that his claims should be strengthened with a penalty order .

Whether there is reason to award one or more of his - now amended - claims, whether or not reinforced with a penalty payment , will be examined below.


4.4
the respondent has conditionally granted her claim in the statement of defense, in the event that it does not read the period for eviction of three days after the judgment, supplemented by this period.


5 The assessment of the complaints and the claims
urgent interest claim timed


5.1
The appellant has challenged - albeit without a separate complaint - the urgent interest assumed by the sub-district court on the part of the defendant in its claim for eviction.

Contrary to the appellant's submissions, the Court of Appeal considers this urgent interest also to be present. The appellant intends, after all, to use the leased property again for its usefulness if the outcome of the appeal gives reason to do so, while the respondent no longer meets the rented spaces in the premises on the a-street 34, 34 A and 34 B make it available to him.

Said interest is also present with regard to the claim for payment of overdue rent in view of the appeal for settlement by the appellant .

This complaint fails.

nuisance / evacuation


5.2
In essence, grievances 1 (in part) and 2 oppose the judgment of the subdistrict court judge that there is such a shortcoming in the performance of the lease agreements on the part of the appellant that this justifies the termination of the lease agreements and that the shortcoming is such that is that the dissolution in summary proceedings can be anticipated. According to the appellant there is a conspiracy between the respondent, local residents, other tenants and some of his sub-tenants and the fault of some incidents has been wrongly placed with him. The evidence relied on by the defendant is one-sided and not reliable, according to the appellant.


5.3
The Court of Appeal finds that the assigned eviction by the subdistrict court judge is based on nuisance and unlawful behavior caused by the appellant, consisting of shouting, playing loud music, harassment, sabotaging existing facilities, intimidating oneself towards intimidated and other (sub) tenants , being involved in (multiple) fights in and near the rented property and providing the opportunity for drug use in one of the rented rooms.


5.4
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the respondent has made it sufficiently plausible that the appellant was involved in several violent incidents and other threatening situations in and with the rented property.

The appellant has always presented himself as a victim, but he cannot in any case be followed in the case of C and his takeaway pizza, which was located in the retail space rented from the appellant. For the time being, the documents show that the situation between C and the appellant has escalated after the appellant had barricaded that retail space a few times and cut off electricity and gas. The appellant acknowledged these actions in his defense of 13 April 2018 (pages 7 and 10).

Furthermore, it has been conclusively proven that the appellant has entered into conflict with RotsVast, another tenant of the building, and that RotsVast has also been closed by the appellant for heating, while a staff member of that office has had to report the appellant for damage to her car.

The aforementioned declaration by the appellant (cf. 2.11) shows yet another conflict between the appellant, this time with his subtenant E and violence occurring between them. The appellant also acknowledges in his defense of 13 April 2018 (page 4) that he had a conflict with his ex-girlfriend and subtenant in the rented property , that the local residents were involved in this and that the police came to the scene. In that defense he also speaks about provocations of neighbors (page 4), about a conflict between him and his subtenants F and G (page 16) and about 'changing locks often'. In that defense (page 17), the appellant states that 'dangerous, even life-threatening situations' have arisen.

That the situation in and around the spaces rented by the appellant was tense and conflicting and was also associated with (noise) nuisance, is further supported by the WhatsApp and e-mail messages from other (sub) tenants and local residents.

With regard to all this, it is still sufficiently plausible that the appellant has seriously failed to fulfill his obligation to act as a good tenant and that, as the appellant claims, there is no question of a conspiracy against him who has no further ground.


5.5
Neither the appellant's statements nor the documents submitted provide any indication that the appellant was open to correction by the respondent and / or by others, such as the police who came to the scene several times in particular in February 2018. The respondent therefore had a great interest in this situation of nuisance, conflicts and escalationas soon as possible. This interest prevails over the interest of the appellant to await a decision in a substantive proceeding. In this context, the appellant has not adduced anything that indicates that and why he had a special interest - more or different to the interest that every tenant has in order to be able to continue to use the rented property - that would have to lead to a different result of the weighing of interests. lead. The conclusion is that these grievances fail.

rental protection sub-tenants


5.6
With complaint 3 , the appellant complains that the subdistrict court judge has rendered an unclear judgment because, in his opinion, it is unclear what is meant by 'with all persons present therein'. According to the appellant, his sub-tenants are entitled to rent protection, those sub-tenants are not parties to the proceedings and there is no reason to anticipate the eviction of these sub-tenants, while he has an interest in maintaining these sub-leases.


5.7
With his argument the appellant ignores that insofar as he refers to the sub-tenants of the spaces rented out to him that are (also) intended for use as living space, these are always non-independent living spaces so that a subtenant does not have any protection against the respondent as the landlord . Insofar as the appellant refers to the retail space, which is only intended as business space, it is insufficiently substantiated that this space has been leased as such to another person or actually to another person after the departure therefrom of the takeaway pizza shop on 14 February 2018. has been used as business space. This complaint also fails.

rent, suspension and settlement


5.8
It is not disputed that the appellant owes an amount of € 3,373.50 per month to the respondent for the rented spaces and that he has left the installments for the months of March 2018 and April 2018 unpaid. appellant has submitted with his complaint 4 that he was allowed to suspend the payment thereof and to set off those amounts against the damage suffered by him due to defects and mold formation in the leased property and that for this reason the subdistrict court judge wrongly granted the claim for overdue rent.


5.9
The fact that there were defects in the rented property and, if so, which defects, is devoid of any substantiation. This also applies to the proposition that the rented property was concerned with mold formation, while the documents do not show that appellant complained about defects or mold formation at the time of the respondent at any time. The photos submitted by the respondent, reflecting the situation at the start of the lease agreements per August / September / October 2017, as the appellant has acknowledged in comparative terms, and the photos from the end of May 2018, as appended to the official's official report

dated May 28, 2018 do not show mold formation either. In addition, in his defense of 13 April 2018 (page 15), the appellant explained in detail that 'the defendant had no dispute with him concerning the rent and the payments, that he had refurbished everything and that the defendant did not have to go through it once. come along for even one problem 'and he has not explained how this relates to his claim that there are defects and mold formation. The Court of Appeal therefore ignores this defense and the appeals for suspension and set- off based thereon . The complaint fails.

amended claim in counterclaim


5.10
The following applies with regard to the appellant's claim.


5.11
As the appellant has been evicted from the spaces he has rented and his complaints against that evacuation fail, he has no interest, let alone an urgent interest, in the assessment of his claims for i) a prohibition against the respondent entering into direct rental relationships with subtenants of the appellant, ii) a prohibition on the respondent to violate the privacy of the appellant by hanging up cameras in the leased property and allowing her tenants to install cameras and iii) a conviction of the respondent to comply with her agreements with the appellant regarding the parking places.


5.12
From what has been considered above, the following advanced by appellant to respondent command to repair defects and mold, as insufficiently substantiated is not assignable, which also means that it is considered on the basis of which this at such a preliminary injunction no has an (urgent) interest.


5.13
For comparison, the appellant has confirmed, as is also clear from the documents, that E rented a room from him (and therefore not from the defendant), so that for that reason it is not clear that the defendant should be obliged to ensure that the subtenant behaves towards the appellant, or at least avoids contact with the appellant. Incidentally, it also applies to this claim that, now that the appellant has been evacuated from the leased property and remains evacuated, he has no (more urgent) interest in this claim, no matter what else.


5.14
Finally, with regard to the prohibition demanded by the appellant for respondents to be negative about him in the press, this claim is insufficiently substantiated. For example, the appellant did not explain which statements the respondent would have wrongly made about him when. Insofar as the appellant thereby refers to the news reports published in mid-February 2018 in 'De Gooi en Eemlander' or in 'De Gooi en Eembode', it must be established that the appellant's name is not mentioned therein. The appellant has also not explained in which there is a justified fear that the respondent will not speak about him unlawfully in the media in the future. There is therefore no basis for a provisional provision such as that claimed here.


5.15
The claim of the appellant as amended on appeal is therefore not assignable.

first-instance litigation costs


5.16
Since there is no reason to still reject the claim in the main action and to grant it in the counter-action, there is no reason to judge otherwise in the proceedings against the appellant in the proceedings against the appellant. The complaint 8 directed against it also fails.


5.17
In view of the foregoing and in view of the eviction of the appellant from the rented property that already took place on 4 June 2018, the Court of Appeal is not entitled to assess the addition, conditionally expressed, of its claim in the convention, which serves to determine an eviction. within three days after the decision.


6 The conclusion

6.1
The complaints fail, so that the contested judgment must be upheld.


6.2
As the party that is largely unsuccessful, the court will order the appellant to pay the costs of the appeal.


6.3
The costs for the appeal proceedings on the part of the respondent will be set at € 318 in court fees and € 2,148 in lawyer 's salary (2 points x rate II at € 1,074), together € 2,466.


7 The decision
The court of appeal:

endorses the verdict of the subdistrict court judge in Almere on 30 April 2018;

orders the appellant to pay the costs of the appeal, up to this judgment on the part of the respondent set at € 318 for disbursements and at € 2,148 for salary in accordance with the liquidation rate;

declares this judgment to be enforceable insofar as it relates to the order to pay the costs referred to herein;

rejects the more or otherwise advanced.

This judgment was delivered by Mr. WF Boele, Mr. WPM ter Berg and Mr. WA Zondag and was publicly pronounced on 30 July 2019 by the role councilor in the presence of the clerk.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 6226