Content indication
Grounds for supervision are no longer present.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-11-12
Publication date
2019-11-26
Case number
200,261,763 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2019: 2507
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.261.763 / 01

Court case number: C / 15/285364 / JU RK 19-357

decision of the Multiple Chamber of 12 November 2019 concerning

the mother ,

residing at place of residence, municipality,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: M. van der Weide, Alkmaar,

and

Child Protection Board ,

established in The Hague,

location Haarlem,

respondent on appeal,

to be called: the council .

The following are considered as stakeholders:

- the certified institution Youth & Family Protectors (hereinafter: the GI);

- the minor (hereinafter: the minor ).


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in the Noord-Holland court (location Alkmaar) (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ) of 28 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The mother lodged an appeal on 28 June 2019 against the decision of 28 March 2019.


2.2
The Council submitted a statement of defense on 30 July 2019.


2.3
The court has the minor , the minor made his opinion known to the occasion. By letter of 23 July 2019, received on 25 July 2019, he informed the court that he did not want to take this opportunity.


2.4
The oral hearing took place on 30 September 2019. Appeared are:

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- Mrs DM van Dijk on behalf of the council ;

- the family manager on behalf of the GI.


3 The facts
From the (now broken) relationship of the mother and the father (hereafter: the father ) the minor was born in 2006. The mother only exercises authority over the minor . The father has recognized the minor . Since 2009, there has been no interaction between the minor and the father .

Child A (hereafter: child A) was born from a previous relationship of the mother in 1999. child A was supervised from 2013 to 2015 . He lives with the mother .

The mother had a relationship with X (hereafter: X) from 2012 to 2017. Child B (hereafter: child B) was born from their relationship in 2013 and child C (hereafter: child C) in 2017.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The contested decision placed the minor under the supervision of the GI from 28 March 2019 to 28 March 2020 , in accordance with the request of the Council .


4.2
The mother requests that, by annulment of the contested decision, the introductory request by the Board be rejected.


4.3
The Council requests the ratification of the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to Article 1: the right to a 255, first paragraph, Civil Code (BW) minor under supervision asking a certified institution if the minor so growing up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
The mother states that the grounds of Article 1: 255 of the Dutch Civil Code are not met. the minor is not seriously threatened in his development , she argues in her first complaint. He is doing well, as his school has reported. The minor does suffer from the negative treatment of X, which can damage the self-image and self-confidence of the minor . However, it has not been shown - according to the mother - that this is already the case in practice. The fact that the minor is insecure and fear of failure can be childishand does not have to be (solely) due to the treatment by X. Work is also underway on this point of concern in the context of the supervision of child B and child C (also pronounced on 28 March 2019) . Although the mother does not agree with the legal basis for their supervision , she is based on that and is prepared to experience the potential added value of a youth and family protector. The mother does not see what the supervision of the minor can still contribute on this point. The mother further argues that she is the minor provides a safe parenting environment and does not burden him with adult problems.

Another concern mentioned by the juvenile court is the lack of contact between the minor and the father . In the past, attempts have been made to initiate guided intercourse (with the help of Time Out), but the father did not comply with his agreements and unilaterally ended the process. the minor no longer wants to be in contact with his father and, on the contrary, becomes restless because he is being pulled again, according to the mother .

In her second complaint, the mother expressly disputes that she insufficiently accepts the help offered to her. With X she started Parenthood Blijft . The fact that it took some time before this process could be started is due to waiting times and therefore the mother cannot be blamed. The mother has been seeking help for some time, for example at Kenter Jeugdhulp, the practice assistant of the general practitioner and social work Socius. This is another reason why the mother does not see the added value of being placed under supervision by the minor , all the more so with the GI sometimes causes more unrest and therefore counterproductive, for example because X again sees room for negotiation.

At the hearing on appeal, the mother added to the foregoing that the course of her and X at Parenthood Blijft will probably take approximately one year and that they will hold conversations twice a month. Furthermore, she has clarified that she is concerned about the minor , but that she believes that these can be removed through the deployment of Kenter Jeugdhulp, Parenthood Continue and the supervision of her daughters.


5.3
As a defense, the Council referred to its report of 11 February 2019, which forms the basis for the preliminary request. Among other things, it can be deduced from this that the minor suffers a lot from the struggle between the mother and X. In addition, the council is concerned about the negative image that the minor has of the father .

The Council argues that the enclosed information from the GI suggests that there are concerns about the minor , although he is doing well at school. The family manager has spoken to the minor once at school and has never before seen so much resistance with a child as with the minor . The GI also states that the mother has filed a complaint against Parenthood Blijft , which has been settled, after which the process is continued. Kenter Jeugdhulp will start with outpatient counseling .

At the hearing on appeal, the council maintained its position that the supervision of the minor is necessary. Although it is positive that Parenthood Continue has started and that Kenter Jeugdhulp will start, the supervision of children is, according to the Council, necessary to supervise , especially with regard to the follow-up help for the minor and the preparation of the minor for that help. the minor is a vulnerable boy who is struggling with unprocessed emotions and who shows patented behavior. The Councildoubts whether assistance in the voluntary framework gets off the ground sufficiently. The council also has doubts as to whether, within the voluntary framework, space will be created for the minor to adjust his negative father image .


5.4
The family manager stated at the hearing on appeal that her conversation with the minor at his school had such an impact on him that she decided to contact him as little as possible for the time being and to await the results of Kenter Jeugdhulp. In this way she hopes to get more (in) sight. Kenter Jeugdhulp will in any case also pay attention to the anger and sadness that the minor experiences with regard to X.


5.5
The court considers as follows. According to the council and the GI lies the major development threat of minors in certain circumstances. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the concern expressed that the minor would seriously suffer from the negative image of his father was insufficiently substantiated by the council .

However, it turned out that the minor was damaged in the period in which X still belonged to the family. The mother has not denied that X treated the minor , who is already vulnerable by a below-average IQ, physically and mentally ill. Among other things, this has resulted in the child having intense feelings of hate, as noted by the family manager during her conversation with him. Furthermore, the struggle between the mother and X has had an impact on the minor . Although Parenthood Continuesin the meantime, in order to ensure that that struggle is stopped, but the consequences of that struggle (as well as the understanding between the minor and X) mean that the minor is facing a serious development threat and that he urgently needs assistance .

The mother acknowledges that the minor needs help. However, it states that assistance in the voluntary framework is sufficient where the council states that a forced framework must be imposed. The court found from the council report that, for example in view of the fact that the mother did not want to continue providing assistance to Parlan in 2013 and that in 2016 she did not follow the advice of the GP's practice assistant to make contact with the municipality, that the mother is (has been) variable in accepting assistance . That the deployed assistanceHowever, in the opinion of the court of appeal, the mother can not be blamed for the desired result . It can be deduced from the documents that there were also problems with financing and the inability to find the right organization. Now that the mother at the hearing on appeal appeals explicitly to cooperate in the assistance that the minor needs, including the follow-up assistance to be advised by Kenter Jeugdhulp, and has initiated the assistance by Kenter itself, the court is of the opinion that the Mother currently has the help needed to take the serious one away accept the development threat of the minor . The court also assumes that the mother will accept help for herself if Kenter Jeugdhulp considers it appropriate in the interests of the minor . The Court of Appeal also assumes that if the mother fails to comply with the aforementioned commitments (sufficiently), this will be signaled by the GI, which will, after all, remain involved with the family in connection with the supervision of child B and child C, and then a a new request will be submitted to place the minor under supervision .

In view of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the grounds of Article 1: 255 of the Dutch Civil Code are not being met at present, now that there is indeed a serious development threat , but the court is insufficient in the light of the mother 's commitments. has reason to believe that the mother does not currently accept the necessary help. As the mother has previously been varied in accepting assistance and has shown her resistance to assistance and has also declared assistance for the minor at the hearing at first instance not find it necessary, the juvenile court judge correctly ruled that the assistance was insufficiently accepted by the mother at that time . The grounds were therefore present at the time the contested decision was adopted. Therefore, the court of appeal will reject the preliminary request of the GI insofar as it concerns the period from today to March 2020.


5.6
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

endorses the decision, the appeal of which has been placed under the supervision of the minor for the period from 28 March 2019 to the present;

annul the decision whose appeal, in so far as the minor was placed under supervision for the period from now to March 28, 2020;

Rejects the preliminary request by the Council to place the minor under supervision as far as the period up to and including 28 March 2020 is concerned;

declares this decision enforceable from stock;

rejects the more or otherwise requested;

requests the clerk to send a copy of this decision to the clerk of the court of Noord-Holland (location Alkmaar), civil law department, family and juvenile law team for the attention of the public register under the provisions of the Decision on authority registers.

This decision was made by AR Sturhoofd, J. Kok and M. Fiege, in the presence of FJE van Geijn as Registrar, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on 12 November 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 4169