Content indication
Extension of supervision . The grounds for being placed under supervision were present at the time of the contested decision and are still present today.
Instance
Court of Amsterdam
Pronunciation Date
2019-10-29
Publication date
2019-11-05
Case number
200.260.068 / 01
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Formal relationship
First instance: ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2019: 2325
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF AMSTERDAM
Civil and tax law department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.260.068 / 01

Case number court: C / 15/283365 / JU RK 19-33

Order of the Multiple Chamber of 29 October 2019 on

the father ,

residing at place a,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: F. Westenberg in Hoorn, the Netherlands

and


1 the certified institution Youth & Family protectors,
Based in Amsterdam,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI,


2 the mother ,
residing at b,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: M. van der Weide in Alkmaar.

The following are considered as other stakeholders:

- the minor A (hereafter referred to as: child A);

- the minor B (hereafter referred to as: child B).

The following is known in his advisory role in the procedure:

the Child Protection Board ,

location Haarlem,

hereinafter referred to as: the council .


1 The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the Court of Appeal refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in the Noord-Holland court, location Alkmaar (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge ) of 26 February 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The father appealed on 24 May 2019 against the aforementioned decision of 26 February 2019.


2.2
The GI submitted a statement of defense on 25 June 2019.


2.3
The mother submitted a statement of defense on 2 July 2019.


2.4
The following documents have also been received by the court:

- a journal report from the father of 9 September 2019 with appendices, received on 10 September 2019;

- a journal report from the father of 10 September 2019 with appendices, received by fax on 10 September 2019;

- a journal report from the mother of 16 September 2019 with appendices, received on 17 September 2019.


2.5
The oral hearing took place on 20 September 2019. Appeared are:

- the father 's lawyer ;

- the GI, represented by the family manager and a colleague;

- the mother , assisted by her lawyer;

- the council , represented by Mrs. VAS Regout.

The father , although properly summoned, did not appear at the hearing.


3 The facts

3.1
From the now broken relationship of the mother and the father (hereafter together also: the parents ) are born:

- child A, place of birth in 2008;

- child B, place of birth in 2010 (hereafter also together: the children ).


3.2
By decision of 3 March 2017, the children were placed under the supervision of the GI. The supervision order has subsequently been extended each time, most recently until 3 March 2020 by the contested decision.


3.3
Since October 2017 the children have been staying with their father , which stay has been formalized afterwards by means of an out-of- home placement authorization . The out-of- home placement authorization was last extended until 3 March 2020 by decision of 30 August 2019.


3.4
By order of 14 November 2018, as far as currently relevant, substitute permission was granted to the father to recognize the children , after which the father acknowledged the children .


3.5
Provides that, by order of September 11, 2019 father together with the mother is charged with the exercise of parental authority over the children and the children their primary residence at the father's will.


3.6
The children have telephone contact with the mother every other week on Thursday under the supervision of Mrs. X van Tzorg.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
With effect from 3 March 2019 - at the request of the GI - the supervision of the children was extended by the contested decision to 3 March 2020 and an authorization to place the children out of the home with the father - at that time without authority - was granted until no later than September 3, 2019.


4.2
The father requests, with the annulment of the contested decision to that extent, to reject the request for an extension of the supervision order.


4.3
The GI requests that the action brought by the father be declared inadmissible or rejected and that the contested decision be upheld.


4.4
The mother requests the father's appeal to be rejected as unfounded and to ratify the contested decision.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
First of all, the court of appeal must judge (ex officio) whether the father can be regarded as an interested party and whether he is admissible in his appeal. The Court of Appeal considered that at the time of filing his appeal, namely on 24 May 2019, the father was not yet charged with parental authority over the children . However, because the children have been living with the father since October 2017 , the father is, in the opinion of the court, a stakeholder in this case. The father is therefore admissible in his appeal.


5.2
The next item is the extension of the supervision of children . Under Article 1: 260, first paragraph, in connection with Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (Civil Code) to juvenile court , the supervisory status of a minor by a maximum of one year if a minor so grows up, he in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.3
The father is of the opinion that the juvenile court has wrongly extended the custody of the child and argues for this among other things the following. In general, contact between the children and the mother is in their interest, but more research must first be conducted into the possibilities of the mother and the capacity of children . Certainly now that the GI is considering a number of physical contact moments. Another factor is that it has now become apparent that the mother still has to apply for treatment at GGZ and that 's Heeren Loo childB cannot provide the required care. Furthermore, the aim of working on an access arrangement is not in itself sufficient reason for a custodial order , now that the mother has the option to have a contact arrangement established at the court and a custodial order has too much influence on the position of the father . Finally, it goes well with the children and they receive and the father voluntarily aid , says father .


5.4
The GI argues that the supervision order has been rightly extended and argues for this, among other things, the following. Since the summer of 2018, the GI has been focusing on contact recovery between the children and the mother , now that it has proven to be reliable in contact with the GI, fulfilling its agreements and taking the initiative where it needs help. Because the father has difficulty with this, the cooperation between the GI and the father has deteriorated. The father and his network express disqualification towards the mother and frustrate themthe further contact recovery . The GI is therefore very concerned about the socio-emotional development of the children and sees sufficient grounds for this under supervision . Finally, the GI has appointed a contact person with a Turkish background for the father to improve cooperation.


5.5
The mother too is of the opinion that the supervision order has been rightly extended and, for this purpose, argues, among other things, the following. Now that the mother has accepted that the children 's perspective lies with the father , her situation is stable and work can be done to restore contact between her and the children . On May 21, 2019 has a first guided intercourse occurred in the City Playground in a place which is well run. Unfortunately, the appointment after this was canceled, presumably because the father 's childreninfluenced what they no longer wanted. His negative attitude seems to cause behavioral problems in the children . Furthermore, the concerns about the disturbed relationship between the parents and the difficult cooperation between the father and the GI are undiminished and supervision is still needed to ensure that the contact between the mother and the children runs smoothly . Finally, there is no question of voluntary assistance with the father and children , according to the mother .


5.6
At the hearing on appeal, the council advised the court to ratify the contested decision. The children have a burdened past and seem to be trapped between the parents . It succeeds the father not the mother to adopt a place in the lives of the children , while it is important for the social and emotional development of the children to have contact with both parents . In addition, it is important that the children see that the mother is now reliable and that they have a more positive and realistic picture of the mothercan get. The father does not seem to realize this and does not give the impression that he will approach the mother himself. Therefore, according to the council, it is necessary that the GI remains involved.


5.7
The court considers as follows.

The documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal have shown that the children have a taxed history. As a result of overloading, neglect and physical abuse with the mother , the children have been living with the father since October 2017 . This placement was subsequently formalized by an out-of- home placement authorization . After research into the access possibilities, it was decided in June 2018 to telephone contact between the mother and the children . Since the summer of 2018 is according to the GIit became clear that the perspective of the children lies with the father . Also the GI in this period will bet on restoring contact between the children and the mother , because the mother has positively developed and has proved stable and reliable. Since the end of 2018, the calling moments between the children and the mother have been supervised by Tzorg and the father may no longer be present because he directs the children in the conversations, is clearly present in the background and in the presence of thechildren make disqualifying comments about the mother . At the start of 2019, child B was registered with 's Heeren Loo for behavioral problems and in May 2019, child A started with the KOPP group. From the study of 's Heeren Loo has shown that child B emotion regulation problems and being advised to leave him somewhere else to treat because of the current volatile situation at' s Heeren Loo. In the end, on 21 May 2019, the first supervised interaction took place between the mother and the children . The planned in June 2019 dealingwas canceled on the father's initiative . The children saw the mother for the last time on July 5, 2019 and since then there has only been bi-weekly supervised telephone contact. The children were also registered in July 2019 at the Center for Answer, from which they were referred to Triversum in connection with serious trauma. Finally, at the hearing on appeal it appeared that the GI wants to start the relationship again from September 2019, at the mother's home under the supervision of Koel and Co and with an evaluation moment in December 2019.


5.8
In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there is (still) a serious threat to the development of the children , which includes the taxable history of the children and the serious suspicion that the children are trapped between the parents . It also appeared that the father effort is the mother to adopt a place in the lives of the children , and give them the emotional permission required for an unloaded dealing with their motherseems unable to give. The children have not seen their mother for a long time. Together with the GI and the council , the court considers it to be in the interest of the children to have contact with both parents . When the father seems to be little room for, despite the positive developments on the part of the mother and the confidence of the GI in the professional body as mother and in the ways the association expand too. Furthermore, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that assistancein the forced framework, now that it has become apparent that the parents , and in particular the father , do not sufficiently accept the care that is necessary in connection with the removal of the aforementioned development threats. The assistance has still hardly started , either for the children or for the parents . In addition, it has been found that only on the initiative of the GI, and not of the father's own initiative , have the parents recently signed up for a process to improve their mutual communication , aimed at building up contact with the parents.children with mother . The Court of Appeal is therefore of the opinion that the grounds for the supervision of the children were present at the time of the contested decision and are still present today. The Court of Appeal will therefore ratify the contested decision.


5.9
This leads to the following decision.


6 The decision
The court:

ratifies the decision whose appeal, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court of appeal;

rejects the more or otherwise requested on appeal;

This decision was made by HA van den Berg, JMC Louwinger-Rijk and ME Burger, in the presence of J. van den Wildenberg as clerk, and was publicly pronounced by the chairman on 29 October 2019 .

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2019: 3943