Content indication
Assessment framework for published statements based on Articles 8 and 10 of the ECHR. In the given circumstances, the offer of evidence is rejected as irrelevant.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-08-06
Publication date
2019-08-08
Case number
200.215.978 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
PS-Updates.nl 2019-1017
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN

location Leeuwarden

civil law department, trade

Court of Justice case number 200.215.978 / 01

(Case number court Noord-Nederland 4689694 \ CV EXPL 15-13675)

judgment of 6 August 2019

in the case of

appellant,

residing in A,

appellant,

at first instance: defendant,

hereinafter: appellant,

lawyer: TJ Stapel, with his office in Haarlem,

against

timed,

residing in B,

timed,

at first instance: plaintiff,

hereinafter: the respondent,

HJ Reyneveld, lawyer, with offices in Huizen.


1 The further course of the appeal proceedings

1.1
The court of appeal takes over the content of the interim judgment of 3 July 2018 here.


1.2
The comparison of parties determined in the interim judgment has not been continued. The appellant then asked for an appeal. The plea was made on 20 March 2019. The official report drawn up from this is in copy with the documents.


1.3
Subsequently, the documents were again submitted for the delivery of a judgment and the Court of Appeal decided.


2 The facts

2.1
The subdistrict court judge established the facts in its judgment of 22 September 2017 in paragraph 2 (2.1 up to and including 2.25). The parties have not raised any objections to this determination. Supplemented with what has been established on appeal, those facts, insofar as relevant in appeal, are as follows.


2.2
Marianne Vaatstra was found murdered on 1 May 1999 in a meadow in Veenklooster.
2.3
The defendant lived at the time of the murder in a caravan on the site of the nearby AZC De Poelpleats in Kollum.
2.4
The appellant has been investigating the murder of Marianne Vaatstra since 2009 .
2.5
The appellant manages the website rechtiskrom.wordpress.com. The appellant writes on the website about controversial murder cases, including the murder of Marianne Vaatstra.


2.6
After a DNA test, Jasper S. was arrested in November 2012 for the murder of Marianne Vaatstra. He made a confessional statement and was sentenced by the Northern Netherlands court, Leeuwarden location, on 19 April 2013 to an unconditional 18-year prison sentence. Jasper S. did not appeal this judgment.
2.7
The appellant is convinced that Jasper S. is not the murderer of Marianne Vaatstra, but that this murder was committed by an asylum seeker. According to the appellant, it was already known shortly after the murder that an asylum seeker had committed the murder, but senior officials from the judiciary have covered up and helped this asylum seeker flee the country.


2.8
In May 2014, Novio Media Uitgevers published a book, written by appellant and C (hereinafter: C), entitled: The forbidden diary of Maaike Vaatstra ”, with the subtitle: The shocking revelation about the actual perpetrators of the murder of Marianne Vaatstra. Chapter 4 of the book, which contained excerpts from the diary of Marianne Vaatstra 's mother , is forbidden by the judge in summary proceedings and in the case in the main proceedings.


2.9
In Chapter 5 of the 512-page book (hereinafter: the book), under the heading “The Dark Sides of the Timed” on pages 211 - 220, the timed is portrayed as a lying trader of stolen stuff, including weapons, and a producer of porn movies. In the chapter it is further suggested (page 219) that the murder of Marianne Vaatstra would have taken place in the caravan of the respondent. The respondent is mentioned in the book with first and last name.


2.10
In July 2014, the appellant published the following message on its website rechtiskrom.wordpress.com:

“The accomplice / co-perpetrator of the murder of Marianne Vaatstra simply lives in Dokkum

In the controversial book "The forbidden diary of Maaike Vaatstra" it is stated that the German citizen is complicit in the murder of Marianne Vaatstra. At the time, the man lived in a mobile home on a campsite that was part of the Asylum Seekers Center Kollumerland. He ran a video store in Dokkum in the 1990s, where porn was a big part of the range. The rape and murder allegedly took place in this caravan and were filmed by the defendant. (...) The authors base their observations on two vault statements from former asylum seekers who were sworn under oath at the notary this spring. One of the men, a friend of D at the time (court: this means E), declares to have witnessed the murder in the German caravan.

(...)

The other attorney (court: meaning F) is a man who claims to have picked up D with his car from the Keningswei (the place where Marianne was found) and has given a lift to Leeuwarden. This man also states that the murder was committed in the caravan of the respondent. The judiciary is aware of the identity of both of those stated, according to the authors.

It was already known that the respondent left for Germany the morning after the murder and returned two weeks later with another car. According to former AZC guards, respondents said when asked that he had had his car made into a "package". It is also known that his caravan went up in flames a month and a half after the murder. Although the now uninhabited chalet burned down in the middle of the night, the police found that a short circuit was the cause. In 2002 DNA was taken from the respondent, which according to the Ministry of Justice excluded him as the perpetrator. The authors state that this makes sense because he did not commit the murder, but facilitated. The state of affairs implies, according to them, that the car of the respondent was used to dump Marianne's body in the pasture along the Keningswei. Both the car and the caravan are then destroyed to clear evidence.

The authors also visited the respondent before they published their book. He thereby denied everything but showed that he maintains email traffic with the case officer of Justice I.

If the vault statements are based on truth, it means that the justice department immediately knew the truth, but had it covered up and gave the perpetrator and accomplices a release. And ultimately the cattle farmer Jasper S. was convicted on false grounds for the murder.

(...).


2.11
respondent filed a report of libel , defamation and insult against the appellant and C on 17 July 2014 .
2.12
At the end of July 2014, disagreement arose between appellant and C. On

On 16 October 2014, the appellant wrote the following about this on his website rechtiskrom.wordpress.com:

C,

Hereby I summon you, in the capacity of publishing house Novio Media, to stop selling the book with immediate effect. The reasons are well known to you. It is now 100% clear to me that there are no notarized vault statements. I no longer want to link my name to a book in which you (also in my name. Without knowing it) have debited a lie with regard to the granite hard evidence, the crux of the book.

(...).


2.13
In June 2015, the appellant announced a follow-up to the book, entitled: "The Vaatstra Complot". On the website hetvaatstracomplot.nl, the appellant has the following message about this:

“ THE KILLERS

(...)

The real killer of Marianne Vaatstra is Iraqi Kurd D, who was then a resident of the Kollumerland refugee center. The murder was not committed in the pasture where Marianne's body was found, but in the German's chalet, who was intimidated in the camping area adjacent to the AZC.

Also present during the rape and murder were G, a German friend of the defendant, and the then 15 year old E, a friend of D. E was picked up the following day, 1 May 1999, by the police of the AZC and questioned at the Buitenpost office. The leadership of the research was done by H that now I and J on the chest drumming amazing how they have solved the case. However, on the desk E already told the whole story on day 1, including the whereaboutsvan D in his rental room in Leeuwarden. That knowledge was not used by the judiciary to resolve the matter, but to keep the true facts hidden forever, among other things by secretly stealing D out of the country and bringing E as a witness to the murder. The how and why you can continue

read in detail in the book.


2.14
The appellant was convicted on 5 July 2016 by the Northern Netherlands court, Leeuwarden seat ( ECLI: NL: RBNNE: 2016: 3280 ) for the aforementioned accusations against the defendant for the co-perpetration of defamation . The appellant has appealed against this judgment.


2.15
On July 10, 2016, the appellant posted a blog with the title "Analysis of the Judgment" on its website. That article states, as far as relevant, the following:

“Once again in a nutshell: Marianne was murdered by D (and almost certainly K) with E and G in the caravan of the defendant. (…) I wanted to state that from day one, Justice knew that the defendant was involved in the murder and was an accessory . And that the justice department has acted criminally.


2.16
On 16 May 2017, the district police officer L informed F at the request of the appellant in writing that F did not wish to cooperate in the appellant 's journalistic investigation .


2.17
The witness E mentioned by the appellant has filed summary proceedings against the appellant. In its judgment of 9 May 2018 (ECLI: NL: RBNHO: 2018: 3898), the preliminary relief judge of the Noord-Holland court, sitting in Haarlem, imposed a contact ban on pain of an incremental penalty payment , the publication and distribution of the book Het Vaatstra Complot prohibited as well as any other statement stating that E would be directly or indirectly involved as a witness, (co-) perpetrator or accessory in the murder of Marianne Vaatstra. E made a declaration under oath at the hearing. The following is stated in the official report:

“At the hearing, the preliminary relief judge asked E whether he would be willing to make a statement under oath as a witness in which he would be asked three questions by the preliminary relief judge, namely:

Do you know anything about the murder of Marianne Vaatstra from your own observation?

Have you witnessed the murder of Marianne Vaatstra?

Did you ever tell anyone that you witnessed the murder of Marianne Vaatstra?

(...)

The witness E (…) answers as follows:

Question 1) No.

Question 2) No.

Question 3) No "


2.18
The criminal division of the Court of Appeal in its judgment of February 11, 2019 ( ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 1245 ) with the court regarded as established that appellant opposite respondent guilty of the complicity of libel and sentenced him to imprisonment for two months. The appellant appealed in cassation against this judgment.

3 The dispute and the decision at first instance

3.1
the respondent has summarized at first instance, following a change of claim, and insofar as it relates to the appellant, demanded the following: a) convict the appellant on pain of a penalty all publications in which the accused is directly or indirectly accused of criminal offenses, including but not limited to complicity in murder, trafficking in and production of child pornography and snuff movies , or other suspicions concerning criminal offenses against the defendant within 14 days after the date of the judgment to cease and to cease, inter alia:

- to withdraw the book "The forbidden diary of Maaike Vaatstra Part II" (the book without chapter 4),

- remove and keep the alleged accusations and suspicions of the respondent on the rechtiskrom.wordpress.nl, Waldnet.nl, hetverbodendagboek.nl and Youtube websites, and

- to refrain from other and future publications in which the defendant is accused of the criminal activities allegedly performed in the book.

b) condemn the appellant on pain of a penalty to place a rectification with the following content on the website rechtiskrom.wordpress.com, and to keep it posted for a minimum of 3 months

CORRECTION. In recent years, we and the appellant and C have in several publications unlawfully accused Mr. Intimid or associated them with serious criminal offenses, including the assassination. By judgment of the District Court of Noord-Nederland dated …… we were sentenced, on pain of a penalty , to cease these accusations and to place this rectification.

c) order the appellant and C jointly and severally on penalty of a penalty to place that rectification in the newspapers Leeuwarder Courant and Nieuwe Dockumer Courant.

d) order the appellant and C jointly and severally, or at least order C, to pay an amount of € 10,000 as compensation for the intangible damage suffered by the respondent as a result of the publication of the book.

e) order the appellant to pay an amount of € 6,000 as compensation for the non-material damage suffered by the respondent by publishing the press releases on the website rechtiskrom.wordpress.com.


3.2
The defendant has based his claims on the fact that he has been harmed by the accusations and suspicions of the appellant in the aforementioned publications in his good name and honor, which is unlawful towards him.


3.3
The appellant submitted a substantiated defense.
3.4
In its judgment of 21 February 2017, the subdistrict court largely granted the claims of the defendant. It has limited the prohibition demanded under 3.1 a to

publications in which the accused are directly or indirectly accused of being involved in murder, the making, duplicating and distributing of snuff movies, the production and distribution of porn movies, the arms trade and the association of the intimate with the murder of Jolanda Meijer. The total penalty payments to be forfeited have been set by the sub-district court at € 40,000 and the intangible compensation payable to the respondent at € 10,000. The judgment has been declared enforceable in stock by the subdistrict court judge.


3.5
In his judgment of 13 September 2017 ( ECLI: NL: RBNNE: 2017: 3552 ), the preliminary relief judge of the Court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, increased the penalty payment to a maximum of € 100,000 because the appellant did not comply with the prohibition awarded in the judgment of 21 February 2017.

In addition, the court ruled that publications in which the name of the respondent is not (fully) mentioned, but where the terminology used, in view of the context of the whole, is clearly referred to him (for example, WH or caravan owner), qualify as indirect accusations. .


4 The dispute and the assessment on appeal
Scope of the appeal 
4.1
The appellant appealed against the award of the claims under the leadership of seven complaints. The complaints are intended to present the full-scale dispute to the court. The court sees this as a reason to deal with the complaints together.


4.2
The respondent has increased his claim in his response, in the sense that he requests payment from the appellant on appeal of an additional intangible compensation of € 25,000. The appellant responded to this increase in claim on the occasion of the appeal. He thereby contested the claim in terms of content, but did not object to the increase in claim. Now that the increase in claim is also considered of its own motion by the Court of Appeal not to be contrary to the requirements of a proper procedural order, the Court of Appeal will do justice to the requirement amended by the response.

Core of the dispute, assessment framework


4.3
This case basically involves the clash of two high-quality rights, namely the right of the defendant to respect his privacy against light-hearted accusations in the press, as enshrined in Article 10 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) and, on the other hand, the right of the appellant to express freely about possible social shortcomings guaranteed by Article 7 of the Constitution and Article 10 of the ECHR.


4.4
The answer to the question as to which of these two rights outweighs the present case must be found by considering all relevant circumstances. The starting point for this assessment is that both rights are in principle equivalent. The opinion that one of the two rights, given all relevant circumstances, outweighs the other right, implies that the infringement of the other right complies with the necessity test of the relevant second paragraph of article 8 and article 10 ECHR.

(see HR January 18, 2008, ECLI: NL: HR: 2008: BB3210 and HR October 5, 2012, ECLI: NL: HR: 2012: BW9230 ). This test must be done in one go.


4.5
With regard to the circumstances to be taken into consideration when considering the situation, the court seeks to follow the following points of view formulated in case law;

the nature of the allegations published and the severity of the likely consequences for the person to whom the allegations relate,

the seriousness - viewed from the public interest - of the abuse that the publications are intended to expose,

the extent to which the allegations at the time of the publications were supported by the facts available at the time,

e clothing the accusations , in relation to the factors mentioned under a up to and including c,

the degree of probability that, even without the alleged publications, the desired goal could have been achieved by other means that are less harmful to the other party with a reasonable chance of rapid success,

the degree of accuracy of the research underlying the publications ,

a possible limitation of the disadvantage to be caused by the press publication for the person affected by it, in connection with the chance that the document in question would have been made public, even without the accused being made available to the press, and

the severity of the sanction imposed.

(see, among others, HR 24 June 1983, ECLI: NL: HR: 1983: AD221 , EHRM 7 February 2012, ECLI: NL: XX: 2012: BW0604 and EHRM 7 February 2012, ECLI: NL: XX: 2012: BW0603 ).


4.6
The court of appeal further notes that the circumstance that the appellant was found guilty of defamation by the court and this court does not mean that an assessment as referred to above cannot be omitted (see HR 11 May 2012, ECI: NL: HR: 2012: BV1031 ). This also applies if it were established, as the appellant argues under complaint 1 , that the murder was committed by D in the caravan of the respondent. In that case too, the right of the defendant to protect his privacy must be weighed against the appellant's right to freedom of expression.


4.7
The Court of Appeal will then make the required assessment taking into account the aforementioned points of view and the circumstances mentioned by the parties.

Violation of the privacy of the respondent


4.8
It is established that the respondent is mentioned by name and by name in the book and in the articles on the appellant's website. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the full name of the respondent in the aforementioned publications constitutes a violation of his right to protection of his privacy. This is not contested by the appellant in itself. the appellant disputes that he would have intentionally compromised the honor and good name of the defendant ( complaint 2 ). The answer to the question whether the appellant deliberately affected the name and the good honor of the respondent can be left open in the light of the standard to be applied here.

Nature of the accusations and their effects on the respondent


4.9
In the book and the articles on the website rechtiskrom.wordpress.com, the defendant is accused of facilitating and filming the murder of Marianna Vaatstra. According to the message published by the appellant on his website rechtiskrom.wordpress.com, shown under 2.10, the respondent was an accessory to the murder of Marianne Vaatstra. The book and the publications on the appellant's website suggest, among other things, that intimidated evidence has been destroyed by selling and setting fire to his caravan, in which the murder was alleged, and by his car, in which Marianne Vaatstra is allegedly to have a package made. In addition, the respondent is accused in the book and the relevant publicationstrade in stolen weapons. It is suggested that the defendant has been involved in making, duplicating and distributing porn movies and so-called snuff movies, films of real rapes and murders. The defendant is finally associated with the murder of Jolanda Meijer.


4.10
The published statements mentioned here, of which the appellant does not dispute that they originate, are each individually very serious allegations against the respondent, of which the appellant should have understood in advance that the consequences for the respondent would be very far-reaching. It is established that the consequences for the respondent have also been very far-reaching and still are because the appellant does not comply with the prohibition in the contested judgment of 21 February 2017. The respondent has undoubtedly stated that he was physically threatened and seriously depressed by the publications of the appellant has been hit.

Obligation to investigate appellant, sufficient factual basis?


4.11
The accusations against the respondent were presented by the appellant as facts. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the serious accusatory nature of those (alleged) facts and the foreseeable consequences thereof for the respondent mean that the appellant had to ascertain before the publications that the (alleged) facts were sufficient at the time of publication. were fixed. The appellant, as will be seen below, has not done this, or at least insufficiently.


4.12
The most far-reaching accusation concerns the (alleged) fact that the murder of Marianne Vaatstra took place in the caravan of the respondent. This accusationis, according to the publications in which it is expressed, based on two statements by former asylum seekers who would have been sworn under oath at the notary in the spring of 2014. From the statements of the appellant, the court understands that this would concern statements from E and F. E is said to have witnessed the murder of Marianne Vaatstra by D in the caravan of the respondent. F allegedly gave D a lift that night and stated that Hassan was bloodied, upset and told that he had killed someone. The statements are said to have been kept in the safe by the notary.


4.13
From the messages from the appellant on his website, including the message of 16 October 2014 referred to under 2.12, the court concludes that appellant was of the opinion at the time that the vault statements did not exist. the appellant, as stated by the defendant without being challenged, did not conduct any further investigation at that time into what both witnesses would have said at the time. The appellant still wanted to do this after the publication of the accusation in question, but this resulted in a prohibition on contacting E and F made a report against him. Moreover, E has emphatically denied that he would have witnessed the murder of Marianne Vaatstra and that he would have said so to C in so many words.


4.14
The appellant has, in his own words, submitted copies of the said vault statements on appeal. The documents submitted in production 2, as the respondent correctly states, do not concern copies of statements made by a notary on oath of E and F, but a deed of deposit. This shows that C went to a civil-law notary in Dongen and handed over three non-anonymized draft vault statements to keep. The notary has only established the identity of C. There is no question of any declaration under oath.


4.15
On the basis of the foregoing, the Court concludes that at the time of the publication of the book in May 2014 and the subsequent messages from the appellant in July 2014, the vault statements from E and F were missing. The relevant comment in the book and on the website is therefore unfounded (not based on a thorough investigation of the facts) and, consequently, the accusation based on it against the respondent is unlawful. Precisely because this is a far-reaching accusation , the appellant should have conducted a thorough investigation of the facts before proceeding with publication.


4.16
The court of Appellant passes through the hearing of E and F to prove that they would have stated at the time that the murder of Marianne Vaatstra had taken place in the caravan of the respondent, the court passes as irrelevant. After all, it is not about what could still be proven. Determining for the under 4.4. The aforementioned consideration is whether the accused statement found sufficient basis in the facts available at the time . It follows from what has been considered above that this is not the case. In addition, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion, in view of what is considered below under 4.19 with regard to the (mis) relationship between the incriminating nature of the accusationstowards the defendant and the objective set by the appellant, the appellant could have and should have dressed up the accusations against the defendant , even if the appellant's reading proved to be correct.

Also for this reason the range of evidence is irrelevant. This also applies to the offer made by the appellant to hear respondents, C, M, N, O, P, Q, R and S.


4.17
The other very serious allegations mentioned under 4.9 are not supported by the appellant at all. He merely states that M could explain that, in the caravan, there were questionable dubious practices through the sale of soft drugs, but the book and other publications do not accuse him of this . There is no factual basis for these accusations and they are therefore unlawful towards the defendant.


4.18
In the opinion of the court, the destructive effect of the unlawful accusations is provided by the offensive tone of the publications and chosen incriminating words, as complicit in.

Relationship between the abuses to be exposed and the respondent


4.19
In the context of the assessment, it is also important that the abuse that the appellant claims to raise with his publications does not relate so much to the intimidated but to the large-scale cover-up by police, the judicial authorities and the Public Prosecution Service alleged by the appellant. Without further substantiation, which the appellant did not provide, the court does not see why it was necessary for that purpose to state the full name of the respondent with his place of residence. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, a (partially) anonymous or fictitious name could have been just as good in principle. The circumstance that in 2002 the respondent himself would have sought publicity to get rid of talks, such as appellant under complaint 3does not justify him being associated more than two years later by the appellant under his full name with the aforementioned very serious allegations .

Other circumstances


4.20
In view of the foregoing, complaint 5 , which complains that the subdistrict court judge wrongly attached weight to Jasper S's conviction, needs no further discussion. The importance of this is lacking. The fact that the appellant made a false declaration against the appellant against a timed report does not play any role in the assessment, contrary to what the appellant claims under complaint 7 .

Interim conclusion


4.21
Considering all these circumstances, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the insufficiently substantiated very serious allegations against the defendant , given the emotional damage that the defendant suffered as a result and is still suffering, constitutes a serious violation of his right to respect for his personal privacy, including the right to protection invoked by himof good name. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, in the light of the aforementioned circumstances, the right of the respondent to remain free from such an infringement outweighs the appellant's right to freedom of expression. In addition, the court assumes that the appellant could have adequately denounced the wrongdoing he had alleged in his publications even without mentioning the full name of the respondent.

Prohibition and increase of non-material compensation


4.22
This justifies the prohibition granted by the sub-district court. That the prohibition is necessary and proportional in the circumstances outlined has not been challenged by the appellant.


4.23
Remains the intangible compensation demanded by the respondent of € 25,000 in addition to the € 10,000 awarded by the sub-district court in connection with the unlawful statements made by the appellant after the sub-district court judgment. In support of that claim, the respondent refers to the violations of the prohibition that would have taken place in the period from February 2017 to September 2017 and on the basis of which the interim injunctionhas also increased. Given the opinion that there are unlawful statements, there is in itself grounds for fair compensation to be determined as referred to in Section 6: 106 (1) (b) of the Dutch Civil Code, as the subdistrict court judge has done. In his statement, the respondent briefly and only in a very general sense discussed the consequences for him of the articles published after the judgment of 21 February 2017. In the first instance, the respondent has already stated that, as a result of the publications, he has come into a long-term depressive state. Whether and to what extent the complaints of the defendant have been aggravated by the publications after the judgment of 21 February 2017 cannot be determined by the court. In view of this, the Court of Appeal considers that the amount allocated by the subdistrict court judge is fair now that the defendant also has no objections to the amount determined by the subdistrict court judge. However, the violations mentioned by the respondent may lead to the forfeiting ofperiodic penalty payments , but that is not the case in this proceeding.


5 Finally
The complaints made by the appellant fail. The offer of evidence from the appellant is being passed over. The contested judgment will be ratified by adjusting the grounds. The additional intangible compensation of € 25,000 claimed by the respondent will be rejected. The appellant will be sentenced as the largely unsuccessful party in the trial costs of the respondent (3 points in II, each point being € 1,074).


6 The decision
The court of appeal,

- upholds the verdict of the sub-district court judge of the Northern Netherlands court, Leeuwarden court of 21 February 2017, rendered between the appellant and the defendant while adapting the grounds,

- orders the appellant to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings, to date on the part of the respondent estimated at € 716 in disbursements and € 3,222 for lawyer's salary ,

- declares this cost order enforceable in stock,

- rejects the more or otherwise advanced.

This judgment was given by RE Weening, IF Clement, and AGJ baron van Wassenaer van Catwijck, and was publicly pronounced by the role councilor in the presence of the clerk on Tuesday 6 August 2019.
Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 6342