Content indication
Request for inspection of the mother on the basis of the AVG (General Data Destination Regulation) is granted insofar as it concerns data from the mother itself and is rejected if it concerns data from her daughter.
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-12-10
Publication date
2019-12-18
Case number
200.253.721 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.253.721 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 18/185062 / JE RK 18-423)

decision of 10 December 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant,

hereinafter to be referred to as: the applicant (or: the minor 's mother ),

P. Rietberg, lawyer, mr.

and

the certified institution: Stichting Jeugdbescherming Noord and Veilig Thuis Groningen , office in Groningen, defendant, hereinafter referred to as: the GI,

as well

defendant,

residing in B,

defendant,

hereinafter to be referred to as: the defendant (or: the minor 's father ),

lawyer: AAM Kroon-Jongbloed in Groningen.


1 The proceedings at first instance
The Court of Appeal refers to the order of the multiple chamber of the Noord-Nederland District Court, location Groningen, of 13 November 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number (hereinafter: the contested decision).

2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on January 30, 2019;

- the defendant's defense with production (s); - a journal report from mr. Rietberg of 22 February 2019 with production (s); - a journal report from mr. Rietberg of 22 March 2019; - a journal report from Kroon-Jongbloed of 25 March 2019; - a journal report from Mr Rietberg of 15 May 2019 with accompanying letter from that date; - a fax message from Mr. Kroon-Jongbloed of 16 May 2019 and the accompanying journal message; - a journal report from mr. Rietberg of 17 May 2019; - a fax message from mr. Kroon-Jongbloed of 29 August 2019; - a letter with appendices from Kroon-Jongbloed of 3 September 2019; - a letter on behalf of Mr. Kroon-Jongbloed from 4 September 2019.
2.2
The minor referred to below as the minor has been given the opportunity by the court to give its opinion on the case. She has written a letter to the Court of Appeal and was heard by a supervisory director prior to the oral hearing of the case.
2.3
The oral hearing of the case took place on 11 September 2019. The applicant and the defendant and their lawyers appeared. The GI was represented by Mrs C. Both lawyers have submitted pleadings.
2.4
The statement of defense submitted by the GI , after objection by mr. Rietberg, has not been accepted by the court and is therefore not part of the case file. Given the nature of the procedure, there is no possibility for the GI as an interested party to file a defense without the intervention of a lawyer. The GI made an oral defense at the hearing and thereby proposed from the defense.

3 The established facts

3.1
the applicant and defendant (hereafter also: the parents ) have had a relationship with each other (until 2013). From this relationship was born in D in 2005, the now still minor is the minor (the minor ), who is recognized by the father .
3.2
The parents of the minor are the following with 3.6 the order of the court have been jointly charged with parental authority over her.
3.3
the minor had her main residence until 19 April 2016 with the applicant, her mother . On that date the applicant was arrested by the police on suspicion of involvement in the death of Mrs. E (the former partner of the then partner of the applicant) and taking preparatory acts for committing a life crime against the defendant. the minor was provisionally entrusted to her father by the court later that year and placed under the supervision of the GI. The supervision order lasted until October 4, 2018 and has not been extended thereafter. The mother has been acquitted of her charged.


3.4
By application, received at the court on 13 June 2018, the applicant requested the GI to inspect and copy the complete file on the minor present at the GI , as well as all notes concerning the applicant, insofar as the applicant does not yet have it in her. owns. The applicant also requests that the GI be ordered to pay the costs.


3.5
In the contested decision of 13 November 2018, which was contested here, the District Court, at the applicant's request, decided as stated below under 4.1.
3.6
Subsequently, by the order of 4 December 2018, declared enforceable by stock, the court terminated the joint custody of the parents over the minor and determined that from now on the defendant is solely responsible for the parental authority over the minor . The applicant's appeal against that decision (case number 200.255.326 / 01) was dealt with on the same day as the present appeal. The Court of Appeal will rule on this separately.

4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision, the court ordered the GI to give the applicant access to all the data that the GI had registered about it within four weeks of the notification of the decision , ordered the GI to pay the costs of the proceedings and rejected what was requested more or less (including the applicant's request for access to and a copy of the information in the GI file on the minor ).
4.2
the applicant requests the court, with the annulment of the contested decision to that extent, to determine: I. that the GI must implement the contested decision under penalty of forfeiting a penalty of € 500 per day or part of a day, must provide a copy of all information stored about it;

- to the extent that it is information from the defendant's contact reports, this information without infringing the defendant's privacy; - to the extent that it is information from contact reports of the minor , this information without infringing the privacy of the minor ;

- to the extent that it is information or correspondence from and to the public prosecutor with

mentioning the source;

- in so far as it concerns information from all family guardians and behavioral

scientists who have dealt with this matter at the time the minor was placed under supervision , statements made in writing concerning the applicant, if applicable with acknowledgment of the source;

- as far as contacts with the council for child protection concerns all correspondence and interview reports and copies of the calls for

applicant;

and to stipulate that the GI must investigate the sources that have disqualified itself about it and cannot state that the persons involved are no longer employed at the GI site in Groningen.

II. order the GI to pay the costs of these proceedings in fine and on appeal.


4.3
The GI requests the Court to ratify the contested decision and to declare the applicant inadmissible in its appeal or to reject it.
4.4
The defendant requests the Court of Appeal to declare the applicant inadmissible or to reject her request on appeal, ordering the applicant to pay the judicial and extrajudicial costs of these proceedings.


5 The reasons for the decision
Admissibility of the applicant on appeal and the question whether the defendant is an interested party


5.1
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the fact that the applicant's request was granted in the contested decision as regards the data on the applicant does not affect the admissibility of the applicant in her appeal. The applicant has a legally relevant interest in the substantive assessment of her appeal, having regard to the adjustment and further specification of her appeal. The dispute focuses in this regard on answering the question of what information the GI must provide to the applicant from the GI file relating to the applicant itself and whether the GIto that end, also having regard to the interests of the other parties involved. As the Court of Appeal stated at the hearing, it is of the opinion that, in view of the content of the applicant's request, the defendant should be regarded as an interested party in this case. applicant requests after all, to provide information from messages sent by the GI with the defendant (and under his authority above the minor ) have changed and that requires assessment of the importance of the defendant (and minor ).
Size of the dispute on appeal 5.2 In the contested decision, the court was right to make a distinction between the requested information about the applicant itself and the requested information about the minor . The Court of Appeal understands from the explanation in the appeal that the present appeal by the applicant is not directed against the decision of the court with regard to the data from the GI file on the minor . To the extent that this is to be understood differently, the court agrees with the decision and considerations of the court on that point (referring inter alia to the minor's interest in providing good assistance)and confidentiality), to which the Court of Appeal added that, even on appeal, the minor did not want to give permission for information about herself from the GI file to the applicant. Furthermore, since December 4, 2018, the applicant has no longer been entrusted with custody of the minor , so her right to information about the minor has since been covered by the more limited criterion in Article 1: 377c of the Dutch Civil Code 'important facts and circumstances affecting the person of the child or concern his care and upbringing '.
Assessment framework for the remaining dispute 5.3 The court agrees, after ex officio assessment, with the judgment of the court with regard to the admissibility of the applicant in its preliminary request and the court's considerations with regard to the assessment framework in the contested decision, to which the court of appeal concludes refers.


5.4
The right to obtain a copy referred to in Article 15 (3) of the AVG does not, on the basis of the provisions of the fourth paragraph, affect the rights and freedoms of others. Inspection must therefore be refused if it would harm the privacy of a third party. Particularly in a file such as the present, the data of different persons are often so closely linked to data about the juvenile or others that it is often impossible to distinguish them. It is therefore difficult to allow each person to view their own data separately without disclosing data from others. The GImust in such a case consider whether the privacy of the third party will be harmed when providing access. The interests of the various persons must then be weighed against each other.
5.5
As further explained by the GI at the hearing on appeal, the applicant was provided with all information directly relevant to her. The GI did not provide any information (from the applicant) that was dealt with in the contacts that the GI has maintained with the defendant or the minor , because it would not be possible to provide information without harming the interests of the defendant and the minor . Data from contact journal of defendant and minor apart from the question of how broadly the concept of "data" should be understood, the Court of Appeal believes that it cannot be provided without harming the interests of these persons. The applicant's proposal to make the names of the defendant and the minor invisible in that regard does not, in the light of the context of that information, provide (in whole) guarantees for the protection of these interests. After all, it is clear to everyone which people are involved.


5.6
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal any personal notes from the youth protector do not in principle fall under the right of inspection of the applicant; this is only a personal tool for the youth protector . To the extent that these notes have led to action, they will be incorporated into further documents, which were subsequently provided to the applicant.


5.7
From the explanation of the GI , the Court also understands that there is no further information about the applicant in the file of the GI that has not already been provided to the applicant from contacts with the public prosecutor and / or the Child Protection Board and with family guardians and / or behavioral scientists who have dealt with the case at the time the minor was placed under supervision . The Court of Appeal sees in what the applicant has claimed no reason to assume that this is incorrect. The relevant requests from the motherin the petitum of its appeal under the third, fourth and fifth dash, the court will therefore also reject. 5.8 The applicant also requested that the GI should investigate the sources that disqualified it. In the court's opinion, this procedure does not provide a basis for such a request, so that the court will reject it. 5.9 Since it has not been established that the GI did not implement the contested decision, there is no reason for a penalty as requested by the applicant.

Litigation costs 5.10 In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal considers that there are no grounds for ordering the GI to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings as requested by the applicant. Furthermore, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the applicant has no interest in ordering the GI to pay the costs of the proceedings at first instance now that it is already part of the contested decision and that there is no specific complaint against it.


5.11
The court of appeal will also reject the defendant's request to order the applicant to pay the legal and extra-judicial costs of the proceedings. Although her appeal does not serve any purpose, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal there is no question of light or unnecessary litigation or misuse of powers. The court of appeal will compensate the costs of the proceedings on appeal so that each of them bears its own costs.


6 The conclusion
The foregoing leads to the conclusion that the appeal of the applicant has no purpose and the court will therefore decide as follows.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

declares the applicant inadmissible in its request that the GI should investigate further the abovementioned disqualifying statements;
endorses the contested decision of the Noord-Nederland District Court, location Groningen, of 13 November 2018, to the extent that it is subject to the judgment of the court of appeal;

rejects what has been requested more or differently.

This decision was made by mrs. JG Idsardi, C. Koopman and S. Rezel, assisted by AJTh. Harkema as clerk and was pronounced in public on December 10, 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 10759