Content indication
The supervision order is terminated. The child 's parenting environment has been positively changed by the use of C. The father no longer wants to play a role in the life of his daughter and there is no longer a focus on communication between parents and contacts between father and child . A request for authority change will be submitted by the mother .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-12-03
Publication date
2019-12-11
Case number
200.262.784 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case number 200.262.784 / 01

(Case number Court of Noord-Nederland C / 18/190554 / JE RK 19-141)

decision of 3 December 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

MS Scheffers, lawyer in Kolham, The Netherlands

and

the certified institution

Stichting Jeugdbescherming Noord and Veilig Thuis Groningen,

established in Groningen,

respondent on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the father ,

living at a secret address,

to be called further: the father .


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of 17 April 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 8 July 2019;

- the GI's defense;

- a letter of 15 October 2019 from mr. Scheffers with production (s);

- a letter of 31 October 2019 from mr. Scheffers with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 4 November 2019. The mother appeared in person, assisted by her lawyer. Mrs B, the youth protector, has appeared on behalf of the GI .


2.3
During the oral procedure, Mr. Scheffers presented an evaluation report on play therapy of 28 October 2019 concerning the minor referred to below .


3 The facts

3.1
The minor (hereafter the minor ) was born from the relationship between the mother and the father in 2011 . The parents are together

charged with the authority over her. the minor lives with the mother .


3.2
the minor has been under the supervision of the GI since 20 April 2018 . Also, the minor was initially removed from home with the authorization of the juvenile judge from that date . In November 2018 she returned to live with the mother .


3.3
By the contested decision - declared enforceable in stock - the juvenile court judge extended the period of supervision of the minor from 20 April 2019 to 20 April 2020.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
The mother lodged two appeals against the decision of 17 April 2019. The mother requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision and (as the Court of Appeal understands) the GI 's request for (extension of the) custody . point.


4.2
The GI has submitted a defense and requests that the mother 's request be rejected and that the contested decision be confirmed.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 260, first paragraph, in connection with Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), the juvenile court judge may extend the supervision of a minor by a maximum of one year if a minor grows up, that in his development seriously being threatened , and:

a. the care associated with the removal of the threat is necessary for the minor or his parents or the parent who authorities exercise, not sufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise custody within a period to be considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor , the responsibility for the care and upbringing referred to in Article 1: 247, second paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code , be able to wear.


5.2
In the contested decision, the juvenile court judge found that the minor had gone through a positive development , but according to the juvenile court judge it was too early to end the minor 's supervision . The juvenile court judge ruled in the contested decision that the development threats of minor which still needs to be worked are:

- the uncertainty as to what role the legal father could possibly play in the life of the minor ;

- the fact that there is insufficient insight into the effect of past events, such as years of complex family dynamics, domestic violence and ever-changing family composition, on the social-emotional development of the minor .


5.3
The mother acknowledges that at the time of the contested decision there were grounds to extend the minor 's supervision . These grounds were mainly due to concerns about the role of the father in the life of the minor and about possible contact recovery . For that reason too, the mother agreed to the extension of the supervision order at the time, so that she and the father could start a process together under the guidance of the GI to carefully shape a possible, safe contact recovery.. It has been found that the father has now distanced himself from the minor . For that reason, the mother will soon submit a request to entrust her only with custody of the minor . The mother further states that she herself brought in help for the minor , that she cooperates well with the necessary assistance and that there are insufficient grounds for the measure to continue. It therefore requests the Court of Appeal to terminate custody .


5.4
The Court of Appeal emphasizes that the (extension of the) supervision order means (continuous) interference in the family life of the parent (s) and the children . This measure is only justified if it is based on the reasons mentioned under 5.1 and should therefore not be applied outside those cases. Further, the measure is not to take longer than necessary to attain the objective to be achieved, namely the elimination of the threats in the development of children .

The court agrees with the mother that the grounds for being placed under supervision were present at the time of the contested decision, but that at present there is no longer a serious threat to the development of the minor that justifies a drastic measure such as being placed under surveillance . The Court of Appeal considers the following reasons for this.


5.5
On appeal, the GI gave an explanation of the background and the current situation. According to the GI , the mother takes a cooperative approach and there are currently no concrete concerns about the safety and development of the minor . On designation of the GI in the parent deployed at home (intensive) program at C completed positively. The minority 's parenting environment has thus changed positively. Nevertheless

the GI , in view of the violent history of the mother , particularly located in its relationship with the (stepfather) D, still advisable to keep an eye on the educational situation of the minor . Also the place of the father in the life of the minor , his authority over the minor , the GI still worries.

The Court of Appeal does not share this latter point of view of the GI . At the hearing it became clear that the father does not want to play a role in the lives of the minor and the mother and that the mother will apply to the court for sole authority . The purpose of the GI within the supervision procedure to establish communication between the parents and contacts between the father and the minor is no longer relevant, regardless of the desirability of that development . The GIpoints out that the minor now knows who her father is. Despite the fact that the status information was given too early by the mother against the advice of the GI , it went in a positive way. Although the GI regrets that the minor will not get to know her biological father any further, the GI sees no further possibilities for that, given the attitude / capacity of the father . The GI also agrees with the (lawyer of the) motherintention expressed at the hearing to submit a request for a change of authority to the court (within one month) , in order to bring the legal situation into line with the actual situation.


5.6
The GI indicated at the court session that it had no doubts that the mother would continue the current assistance in the voluntary framework . During the court session, it appeared that the mother (due to the long waiting times at E) has registered the minor on her own initiative and with full approval of the Gl for play therapy with a freely established therapist. The results of this play therapy are set out in the evaluation report of 28 October 2019. In her report, the therapist concludes - in short - that the minor and her (socio-emotional) development are doing well.. The mother herself is currently receiving support from F. The mother has indicated that it benefits from this form of assistance and wishes to continue this form of assistance in the future.


5.7
Taking all things into account, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, there are insufficient grounds in the current state of affairs to allow continued supervision to continue. The Court of Appeal takes into account that no concrete concerns have been raised about the minor on the part of the GI and that there has not yet been any evidence of a serious development threat . Furthermore, the documents and at the hearing showed that the mother is now well under control of the situation. If assistance is needed, she calls it in on her own initiative and cooperates. The goals of the GI set at the time are therefore outdated.

This means that the statutory criteria for placing under supervision as referred to in Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code are no longer met .


5.8
The Court of Appeal will annul the contested decision, insofar as it concerns the extension of the custody from today, and decide as stated below. Insofar as the order concerns the issue of supervision , the court will ratify the contested order. The more or otherwise requested will be rejected.


6 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

endorses the decision of the juvenile court in the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of 17 April 2019 insofar as it concerns the extension of the supervision of the minor to the present and annuls that decision for the rest;

and to that extent again having:

Rejects the request from the GI for an extension of the supervision of the minor insofar as this extends over the period from now on;

declares this decision to be enforceable as far as possible;

rejects what has been requested more or differently.

This decision was made by EBEM Rikaart-Gerard, JDSL Bosch and LL.M.

mr. BJ Voerman, assisted by mr. M. Marsnerova as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 3 December 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 10513