Content indication
The Court of Appeal holds a definitive decision with regard to parental authority and relationship , given the positive development of parents and the circumstance that the GI still has to take action towards the father and the establishment of an access arrangement .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-05
Publication date
2019-02-13
Case number
200.245.539 / 01
Procedure
Interim decision
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court of appeal 200.245.539 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/160591 / FA RK 18-498)

decision of 5 February 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A, the appellant,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: MMM Minkels in Tilburg,

and

defendant,

residing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: HW de Jong, Leeuwarden.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the certified institution

Protection and Safety Control Center ,

established in Leeuwarden,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 The proceedings at first instance
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court of appeal refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of 4 July 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.


2 The appeal proceedings

2.1
The course of the procedure appears from:

- the appeal with production (s), received on 5 September 2018;

- the defense with production (s);

- a letter from mr. Minkels of 1 October 2018 with production (s);

- a letter from the GI of 7 January 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from the GI of 15 January 2019 with production (s);

- a journal report from mr. Minkels of 17 January 2019 with production (s).


2.2
The oral hearing took place on 18 January 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. On behalf of the GI , Mr. C and Mrs. D. At the hearing, both Mr Minkels and Mr D spoke in part on the basis of the pleadings submitted by them.


3 The facts

3.1
From the - now broken - relationship of the father and mother , the minor was born in 2016 (hereinafter: the minor ). The father has recognized the minor . The mother is in charge of custody of the minor . the minor lives with the mother .


3.2
The father has six minor children , who all have a different mother . With these children , the father intercourse .


3.3
Since mid-September 2017, there has been no interaction between the minor and the father .


3.4
By order of 20 April 2018, the minor was placed under the supervision of the GI from that same date until 20 April 2019.


4 The scope of the dispute

4.1
In the contested decision - declared enforceable in stock - the court determined, insofar as relevant here, that the interaction between the father and the minor took place under the direction and guidance of the GI . The court rejected the father 's request to jointly charge him and the mother with custody of the minor .


4.2
The father appealed against the decision of 4 July 2018 with two complaints. These complaints relate to the decision regarding custody and access . The father requests the Court of Appeal to annul the contested decision with regard to authority and access , and to amend and / or supplement it as follows:

- determine that the father and mother are jointly charged with custody of the minor ;

- a care arrangement to determine the father and the minor are entitled to have contact with each other:

- for four times once every two weeks from Saturday at 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.

- then four times once every two weeks from Saturday at 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.

- then once every eight weeks in the two weeks from Saturday at noon to Sunday at noon;

- then once every two weeks from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Sunday;

- as well as half of the holidays and public holidays to be determined in mutual consultation, whereby the father and mother collect and bring the minor in rotation, or to take such a decision as the court of justice considers appropriate.


4.3
The mother puts forward a defense and requests the Court of Appeal to declare the father inadmissible in his appeal, at least to reject his appeals, or at least to take such a decision as the Court of Appeal considers correct in good justice.


4.4
The GI submitted a defense at the hearing and asked the court to ratify the contested decision in so far as it is subject to the judgment of the court.


5 The reasons for the decision

5.1
The next item is whether the father should be entrusted with the custody of the minor in addition to the mother and which access arrangements should be determined. The Court finds in this connection that the documents and the hearing on appeal showed that serious concerns about the educational environment of the minor . the minor has been exposed in the past to unsafe situations between his parents . The mother was unable to sufficiently guarantee the safety of the minor . Thethe mother suffers from personal problems and there are concerns about the vulnerability and resilience of the mother (both towards the father and towards other men) and the choices that the mother makes with regard to men and (therefore) the safety of the minor . The father also suffers from personal problems. He was extremely traumatized at a young age and there was considerable aggression and regulation problems. In the past he has been in contact with the police and the judiciary several times. In 2016, he was detained for several months due to, among other things, violent crimes.


5.2
The aforementioned concerns led to the child being placed under supervision in April 2018 . The decision of April 20, 2018, the juvenile court considered include - in accordance with the opinion of the Board in its report of April 4, 2018 - that the GI addition to monitoring cease the development and safety of the minor , also can take the reins the establishment of an appropriate access arrangement between the father and the minor .


5.3
By the contested decision of 4 July 2018, the juvenile court upheld the father 's request for the adoption of a visitation arrangement in the sense that it is stipulated that the visitation must take place under the direction of the GI.

However, the documents and the proceedings at the hearing showed that from the start of the custody to date, the GI focused mainly on creating, guaranteeing and stabilizing a safe parenting environment for the minor and the mother . The GI has not yet taken much action with regard to intercourse and has not contacted the father itself . To the extent that the GI has argued that the father recently himself no closer to the GI has sought to appropriate interaction with theminor , the Court of Appeal considered that the contested decision correctly ruled that the GI was in charge . In that context, the Court of Appeal considers it understandable that the father has taken a wait and see approach. The Court of Appeal notes, incidentally, that the manner in which the father ultimately sought contact (by telephone) with the GI cannot of course be discussed. The father also acknowledged this at the hearing.


5.4
The statements of various care providers submitted by the father on appeal show that the father has taken positive steps in recent years. After his detention in 2016 , the father received guidance from the WIJ team. He has also been known for a long time at the forensic psychiatric clinic E (part of GGzE). In recent years, treatment has focused on trauma and the regulation of emotions . The father has the assistanceget to know the past years as someone who is open about his past in crime and who wants to leave his past behind and build a new future with his children . The father now has a permanent, full-time job in the construction sector. With regard to the upbringing of the children , WE A notes that the children are safe with the father and that he is a good, caring father who will always be there for his children , who can meet their basic needs and knows what is and what is not a certain age of the children . The GZ psychologist stated in her statement of January 16, 2019 that thefather has changed in a good sense in recent years, there are currently far fewer characteristics of the antisocial personality disorder previously found with the father and that the diagnosis would not be made now. There is - said the psychologist - the father now be an internal motivation to work on controlling his emotions and he has learned to think first before he acts and thinks how his emotions under control can hold. In line with this, there is continuity in treatment and there is no longer any question of substance use. It is obvious to the GZ psychologist that the father 's love for his childrenthe main driver for his change is and for his commitment to treatment. Furthermore, a statement from the family guardian of one of the other children of the father , F, shows that the relationship between the father and F goes well.


5.5
The mother has also shown positive steps in recent years. She has accepted assistance , has her own home and day care and is taking care of the minor . However, her situation remains vulnerable. Treatment to make the mother stronger and less vulnerable will be continued.


5.6
Given the aforementioned positive developments and the fact that the GI practically no action undertaken towards the father and has not yet started to build a visitation , the court sees reason the final decision on the request of the father on the handling and to hold the authority for a period of six months, pending the course of what will be determined below.


5.7
With regard to the question whether an access arrangement should be established for the duration of the appeal proceedings , the Court of Appeal considered as follows. In September 2017, a serious incident took place between the father and the mother during an intercourse , after which intercourse , which was regularly and unaccompanied before that time, was stopped. The father and the minor have not had contact with each other since. At the hearing it became clear that the GI intends to make contact between the minor and the fatherto start by first, after having father spoke, the six months father to send cards to the minor and belafspraken plan. Subsequently, depending on the progress of these contacts, the GI wants to see more closely which way of dealing is possible. The court understands that the GI is cautious given the past of the parents , their personal problems and their mutual dynamics and that the GI is still concerned about the vulnerability of the mother , but the court is not convinced that this should lead to no dealings in the next six monthsbetween the minor and the father . Although it is worrying that an incident took place during a maneuver , this is now almost a year and a half ago. Both the father and the mother have now taken positive steps.

The Court of Appeal therefore considers it to be in the interests of the minor to build up contacts in a shorter period than the six months proposed by the GI . In this connection, the court considers sending cards - the minor has not seen the father for quite some time, and for the last time when he was only a year old - not sufficient to build a mutual bond with the father . the minor is two years old, in full development and it is in his interest to also build an attachment relationship with his father . That is why the court of appeal will have a provisional access regulation for the duration of the appeal proceedingsestablish, within two months from now, working towards a guided access arrangement of once every three weeks for an hour and a half, whereby the accrual thereof takes place at the discretion of the GI . The Court of Appeal realizes that the supervision order was last extended until 20 April 2019, but the Court of Appeal assumes that the GI will continue its activities afterwards, whether or not within the compulsory framework. The Court also assumes that a solution will be found for the guidance and planning of the interaction moments , despite the fact that the fatherworks full time. In addition, good agreements will have to be made, so that it is clear to the father what is or is not permitted during an intercourse (for example, with regard to contact with the mother ). The Court of Appeal points out to the father that it is important for the minor to adhere to the agreements made, to be reliable to the minor and to continue his own positive development . The father must also (as well as the mother ) continue to be open about his situation and cooperate properly with those involved.


5.8
The court, the will GI requests appearance August 9, 2019 to inform the court in writing about the course of the access arrangements and the (im) possibilities of joint custody and a copy thereof (the lawyers) the father and the mother and the council to send . The (lawyers of the) father and mother , as well as the council , will be given the opportunity to receive the information from the GI within two weeks of receiving the information from the GI.forward their response to the court. After receiving this information and responses, the court will settle the case on the documents or (whether or not after a reasoned request thereto) continue the case on a date to be determined. If there are developments whereby (one of) the parties and / or the GI and / or the council deem a session necessary earlier or are of the opinion that the case can be settled earlier on the documents, a reasoned request can be submitted to the court.


6 The conclusion
Based on what has been considered above, the court will decide as to report.


7 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

stipulates that from now on the following provisional access arrangement between the father and the minor applies: within two months after this, work will be done towards a guided access arrangement of once every three weeks for an hour and a half, whereby the accrual thereof takes place at the discretion of the GI ;

declares this decision to be enforceable with regard to the provisional access arrangement ;

stipulates that the GI must inform the court in writing by 9 August 2019 at the latest about the relationship between the minor and the father and the (im) possibilities of joint custody , all in copy to (the lawyers of) the father and the mother and the council ;

gives the father , the mother and the council the opportunity to send their written response to the court no later than two weeks after receiving the information from the GI , after which the court will decide in writing or determine (whether or not after a reasoned request) that the case will be continued on a date to be determined, for which the father , mother and their lawyers, the GI and the council will be summoned;

keeps every further decision.

This decision was made by mrs. MP den Hollander, IM Dölle and S. Rezel, assisted by HB Fortuyn as clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 5 February 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 1254