Content indication
Authority . Authority only with the mother . Years of guidance and assistance have not led to a level of cooperation between the parents that is acceptable to the children . Their own problems complicate this and cause them to lose sight of the interests of the children and, in particular, to see the shortcoming of the other parent .
Instance
Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice
Pronunciation Date
2019-02-19
Publication date
2019-02-27
Case number
200,178,368 / 01
Procedure
Appeal
Jurisdiction
Civil rights; Person-and familyright
Locations
Rechtspraak.nl
Statement
GERECHTSHOF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN

location Leeuwarden

civil law department

Court of Justice case number 200.178.368 / 01

(Case number Court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/136203 / FA RK 14-1283)

decision of 19 February 2019

on

applicant,

residing in A,

applicant on appeal,

to be called further: the father ,

lawyer: JD Nijenhuis in Leeuwarden, the Netherlands,

and

defendant,

domicile choosing in B,

respondent on appeal,

to be called further: the mother ,

lawyer: MR Rauwerda in Leeuwarden.

The other interested party is considered to be:

the certified institution

Protection and Safety Control Center ,

office in Leeuwarden,

hereinafter referred to as: the GI.


1 The course of the appeal proceedings

1.1
For the course of the proceedings until 30 November 2017, the court refers to its interim decisions of 12 July 2016, 5 September 2017 and 30 November 2017.


1.2
The further course appears from:

- a report on the father of C affiliated with the Netherlands Institute for Forensic Psychiatry (hereinafter: NIFP), of 3 May 2018;

- a report on the mother of D affiliated with NIFP, of 3 May 2018;

- a report by the Council for Child Protection (hereinafter the Board ) of September 12, 2018;

- a journal report from mr. Rauwerda of 26 September 2018 with production (s);

- a letter from the GI of 2 October 2018;

- a journal report from mr. Nijenhuis of 9 October 2018 with production (s);

- a letter from the GI of 10 October 2018;

- a journal report from mr. Nijenhuis of 11 October 2018.


1.3
On the basis of the documents, the Court of Appeal now considers itself sufficiently informed to be able to make a responsible decision, so that the Court sees no reason to determine a new oral hearing. As the court of appeal has considered in the order of 30 November 2017 and has already been notified to the parties, the court will settle the case on the documents. The court of appeal therefore ignores the father 's request to determine a new oral hearing. The fact that the council and the GI do not (fully) support the NIFP report, as the father argues, does not, for the reasons stated below, lead the court to grant its request.


2 The reasons for the decision

2.1
The Court of Appeal will stick to what has been considered and decided in the interim decisions of 12 July 2016, 5 September 2017 and 30 November 2017, unless otherwise considered or decided below.


2.2
On the basis of all the information provided, including the NIFP reports, the council report of 12 September 2018 and the responses of the parties, the court of appeal is of the opinion that the mother should remain solely responsible for the authority over E and F. The Court of Appeal considers this as follows.


2.3
The parental authority includes the duty and the right of a parent to his minor child to care for and educate. The parental authority holds some powers that are necessary for the education and care, which include the power to make key decisions in the life of the child to be taken. In the case of joint custody , such decisions are taken together with the other authoritative parent . For joint custody it is therefore generally required that the parents are in fact capable of a proper joint custodyand that they can take decisions of any interest about their children in joint consultation. This requires that they (can) communicate with each other and then agree.


2.4
As the Court of Appeal considered in its interim decision of 12 July 2016, the relationship between the parties as a result of a fierce struggle, in which emotions have run high, has been severely disrupted and there is no communication and consultation between them.

The Court of Appeal has found that the father and mother are still unable to communicate with each other (in a constructive manner) and that there is no prospect of (sufficient) improvement within the foreseeable future. The Court of Appeal has taken the following into account.


2.5
The fierce struggle between the father and the mother lasted for years. Various forms of guidance and assistance have been used but have not led to a level of cooperation between the father and the mother that is acceptable to the children as the parents of their children . The father and the mother now both have their own lives more or less in order, but are vulnerable on the basis of their own history and problems. The father follows from the NIFP report on the fatherhas good communication skills and in principle sufficient capacity to understand others and to connect and coordinate with others, but his functioning in several areas of life is hampered by an unstable sense of self, uncertainty, sensitivity to anxiety, anxiety and problems with impulse control and emotion regulation . All information has shown that verbal aggression (including the threat of violence) has regularly occurred and sometimes still occurs. The physically aggressive behavior of the father - which, incidentally, is denied by him - seems to have mainly originated from the struggle with / around the mother . The fathertreatment has improved the ability to regulate emotions and statements. That does not alter the fact that the NIFP concludes all in all that the father has a personality disorder with borderline and narcissistic traits. Provided that the father is open to (further) assistance and medication and to the opinion that acknowledging or acknowledging problems in his own functioning is the beginning of the solution, he can limit the negative consequences thereof.

The NIFP report on the mother shows that she has a post- traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and that there is a disharmonic intelligence profile. The mother does not have a personality disorder but does have rigid and controlling traits in personality development that make it difficult to achieve self-reflection and to be open to changes in the current situation in relation to the father . She has benefited from treatment but needs further treatment to reduce her anxiety and avoidant coping strategy. The rigidity, limited introspective abilities and defense mechanisms make it for the motherdifficult to take steps in the situation with the father .


2.6
From the conclusions of the two NIFP reports it follows that the consultation between the parents is hampered by the history they have with each other as ex-partners. Both parents are strongly focused on the shortcomings of the other parent and have a lack of self-reflection and limited capacity to take responsibility for their own actions. The parents do not sufficiently give each other the role of parent . The children must be given the opportunity to shape their loyalty to both parents , but the parentsoffer that - as the court understands - is not (sufficient) yet. As the NIFP points out, the failure of the relationship and the reproaches to the other parent cause the parents to lose sight of the children 's interests. The NIFP states that the personal problems of the parents make it difficult for them to distinguish between their ex-partner problems and the responsibilities that they have as parents . The court agrees with the findings of the experts and makes them its own.


2.7
The NIFP advises the Court of Appeal to hold the decision for one year and then to see whether joint custody has become possible and sets out the conditions that the parents must meet. Those conditions refer to what must happen in the future. Both parents must take their own responsibility and work with assistance to process their own history, relationship history, their own shortcomings and vulnerabilities and to strengthen their own skills and resilience. Considering the seriousness, complexity and nature of the problem and because of the personal problems of the parents This will take time and demand a high degree of willingness, effort and motivation from parties.


2.8
The Council took note of the findings and conclusions of the NIFP and, at the request of the court, initiated a further supplementary investigation . In its report of 12 September 2018, the Council advises , unlike the NIFP, to reject the father 's request to jointly charge the parents with custody . The council sees insufficient opportunities to work towards joint authority . The Council estimates the aforementioned one-year period as unrealistic or attainable.


2.9
The GI has also taken note of the findings and conclusions of the NIFP, and also took note of the report of the Council of 12 September 2018. The GI sees no possibility in the foreseeable future, the communication between the parties improve sufficiently and with the Board believes that the father 's request must be rejected.


2.10
The Court of Appeal first of all states that the interests of the children form a first consideration in the assessment . The NIFP has been asked to investigate the parents . The findings of the NIFP are also related to this. In view of the parents' own problems , the duration and seriousness of the struggle and the steps that the parents still have to take according to the NIFP, the Court is of the opinion that it is by no means to be expected that parents will be able to do so within one year from now. to jointly implement the custody of the children. In that context, the Court of Appeal finds that even with the help of the GI, which has been involved since 2014, and all other assistance provided, the parents have so far failed to come to each other and to consult each other. The court found that the father now in contact with the GI came and moreover refused his assistance to be given to the (by order of the court ordered) investigation of the council . The father 's reaction to the NIFP report, the information from the council and the information from the GI shows that as far as thefather is repeating moves. He does not show to date that he takes responsibility for his own behavior and statements and the consequences thereof for others (condition 2 report NIFP) nor does he show that he cooperates in (indications of) assistance (condition 3, 4 and 5 report NIFP) ). The attitude of the father during the recent investigation of the council , judges the court as rough and indecent and does not create any confidence in the future. The advice of the NIFP does not give the court any reason to postpone the decision and another investigation in a yearto order. Also, the fact that NIFP has advised to end the custody of the mother after that period and in the event that the parents do not meet the conditions does not lead to a different opinion already due to the fact that this advice constitutes the legal assessment framework. falls outside.


2.11
The NIFP indicates that with joint custody in the current situation there is a risk that the parents lose sight of the interests of the children . Like the council and the GI, the court considers the risk too great that the children get stuck or lost between both parents by joint custody , given the personal problems of the parents outlined above , their seriously disturbed understanding, the lack of communication between the parents. An improvement within the foreseeable future cannot be expected. Under these circumstances, there is no basis for joint authority , which leads to the conclusion that the contested decision must be upheld.


2.12
The decision to only give custody of the children to the mother does not detract from the fact that the father is entitled to information and consultation about the children provided that this does not conflict with the interests of the children and that there must be continued attention for a possible contact recovery between the father and the children .


3 The conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the court will decide as to report afterwards.


4 The decision
The court, having an appeal:

confirms the decision of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of 8 July 2015 insofar as subject to the judgment of the court.

This decision was made by mrs. JG Idsardi, MP den Hollander and IM Dölle, assisted by the clerk, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the clerk on 19 February 2019.

Source: Rechtspraak.nl ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2019: 1721