Pronunciation


COURT OF THE HAGUE
Meeting place Arnhem

Administrative law

case number: AWB 19/1502

Single Judgment of 14 February 2020 in the case between
[claimant], v-number [number], claimant
(authorized representative: Mr. I. Özkara),

and

the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, defendant
(Mr. I. Lohmann - Kamphuis).

1 Proceedings
On October 22, 2015, the claimant submitted an application to change the restriction of the residence permit granted to him for a fixed period of time from "residence as a family member or family member with [ex-wife]" to "non-temporary humanitarian grounds".

By decision of 11 February 2016 (primary decision I), the defendant rejected the claimant's application.

By separate decision of 11 February 2016 (primary decision II), the respondent withdrew the residence permit for a definite period under the restriction "stay as a family member or family member with [ex-spouse]".

Plaintiff objected to both decisions on February 22, 2016.

By decision of 29 March 2018, the respondent declared the objection partially well-founded.

On 4 April 2018, the claimant brought an appeal against the decision.

This appeal was declared well-founded on 21 September 2018 by this court and seat; the contested decision was annulled and the defendant was ordered to make a new decision on an objection. This judgment was confirmed on June 19, 2019 by the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State (Department).

By decision of 21 February 2019 (the contested decision), the respondent declared the objection partially well-founded. The contested decision was supplemented by letter of 24 September 2019 regarding the three-year policy.

The plaintiff appealed against the decision on 26 February 2019.

The defendant has lodged a statement of defense.

The public hearing of the appeal took place at a session on 1 November 2019. Plaintiff has appeared, assisted by his authorized representative. Defendant is represented by his authorized representative.

2 Facts
1. The claimant is exempted from the obligation to pay court fees due to a lack of payment.

2. The court assumes the following facts and circumstances.

2.1.
Plaintiff is of Turkish nationality. He was married on March 26, 2013. Around that time, he was issued with a regular regular residence permit under the restriction "residence as a family member or family member with [ex-wife]", his (then) wife. This residence permit was granted from April 24, 2014 and is valid until April 24, 2018.

2.2.
On 17 July 2015, the respondent received a notification from the plaintiff's wife that she and the plaintiff no longer live together as of 14 July 2015 and that a divorce has been filed. As of August 7, 2015, the claimant is no longer registered at the same address as his wife. The divorce was pronounced on July 29, 2016.

2.3.
In 2014, the claimant worked for [employer 1] for about six months. After this, the plaintiff worked for [employer 2] from 9 February 2015 to 1 March 2016. Subsequently, from 1 March 2016 to 24 September 2016, the claimant worked for [employer 3]. From October 2016 to May 2017, the plaintiff received benefits under the Sickness Benefits Act. In 2017, the claimant worked for two months for [employer 4]. Since 2017, the claimant has been working as a temporary worker at [employer 5]

3 Appeal
3. By primary decision I, the defendant rejected the claimant's request to amend the restriction of his residence permit. He based this on the fact that the claimant has not had a residence permit for at least three years. By primary decision II, the respondent withdrew the claimant's residence permit with retroactive effect from 14 July 2015. He based this on the fact that the claimant's relationship with his wife was disrupted on July 14, 2015, so that he has no longer complied with the restriction of the residence permit granted to him since then.

3.1.
In the decision of 29 March 2018, the respondent maintained the primary decisions. However, the respondent has decided not to withdraw the residence permit as of July 14, 2015 but as of March 1, 2016. He has based this on the fact that from 9 February 2015 to 1 March 2016, the plaintiff performed legal work for the same employer, so that he At the time of Primary Decision II, it was covered by Article 6 of Decision 1/80 of the EEC-Turkey Association Council of 19 September 1980 on the development of the Association (Decision 1/80). According to the defendant, the plaintiff is not eligible for continued residence, because his marriage was broken up within three years and he does not fall under one of the exceptional situations. Nor does the plaintiff meet the conditions for residence on the grounds of paid employment, according to the defendant. Finally, according to the defendant, there has been no violation of Article 8 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR).

4. In the judgment of 21 September 2018, the court ruled that the claimant could derive rights from Article 6 of Decree 1/80 until at least 24 September 2016. The defendant's decision was flawed on this point. The court ordered the defendant to file a new decision to object, thereby assessing whether the unemployment that arose after 24 September 2016 falls under one of the situations referred to in the second paragraph of Article 6 of the Decree 1/80 and / or to what extent it is important that this unemployment may have been the result of the defendant's inadequate decisions. With regard to what the plaintiff argued at the time, the court has ruled that these grounds are unsuccessful.

As stated, this judgment has been upheld on appeal, making this judgment irrevocable. For the further course of this judgment, it is important that if a judgment, in which the defendant is called upon to take a new decision on objection after annulment of the previous decision on objection, has become irrevocable, this will result in the appeal if the a new decision on objection on grounds of appeal is put forward that has been expressly and without reservation rejected by the court in that earlier decision, the court has to rely on the correctness of the earlier judgment on those grounds of appeal.

5. In the contested decision, the respondent stated - insofar as it is relevant here - that the claimants' residence permit will be withdrawn on 24 September 2016. In addition, the claimant is not eligible for a residence permit under the three-year policy, the contested decision states.

6. In the grounds of appeal, three grounds have been raised against this. What has been argued will be discussed below.

Search year after the marriage was broken

7. Plaintiff has argued in his appeal that he is eligible for the job-seeking year after the termination of the marriage as referred to in Article 3.31b of the Aliens Decree 2000. At the hearing, the claimant withdrew this appeal ground.

Article 6 of Decision 1/80

8. Plaintiff argues on the date of withdrawal of his residence permit that his unemployment and long-term illness are due to the defendant.

In addition, the plaintiff argues that he again derives rights from Article 6 of Decree 1/80. Plaintiff has performed legal work until April 10, 2018. The period until April 10, 2018 is stable afterwards and should not be considered provisional because the objection was declared well founded on March 29, 2018. This means that the respondent has made an incorrect decision. Plaintiff refers to a judgment of the Court of Justice of 16 December 2003 in the Kazim Kus case. Plaintiff was employed for more than a year at the same employer ([employer 5]) on 10 April 2018, where plaintiff still works.

4 Reasons of the Decision
8.1.
The defendant takes the position on plaintiffs 'illness and unemployment that, insofar as it must be assumed that depression is the cause of unemployment, it is almost impossible to conclude to what extent the uncertainty about plaintiffs' residence situation contributed to this and to what extent this defendant can be blamed. After all, the plaintiff stated during a hearing that the uncertainty about his right of residence was a cause of the depression, but that the divorce of his partner also contributed to this. Plaintiff has not provided (objectively verifiable) documents showing the nature and causes of his depression.

In addition, after this period of illness, the claimant could have further expanded the rights accrued with [employer 2] / [employer 3] under Article 6 of the Decree 1/80. However, this did not happen because the claimant started working at other employment agencies. Nor has the plaintiff made it plausible that he was no longer able to work at [employer 2] / [employer 3] after his illness due to an uncertain residence situation.

The defendant further claims that the plaintiff does not perform his activities on the basis of an undisputed right of residence. The claimant's objection was declared partially well-founded by the decision of March 29, 2018, whereby only the date of withdrawal has been retroactively changed from July 14, 2015 to March 1, 2016. From this it cannot be inferred that work was performed legally until April 10, 2018. In addition, the annulment of the decision on objection has not yet nullified the primary decisions (and the legal consequences thereof). Therefore, there can be no question of legal work performed by [employer 5] for more than a year. The appeal to the Kazim Kus judgment cannot succeed in this regard. In that case, a court ruling explicitly recognized the right of residence and instructed the authorities to withdraw the negative decision and extend the right of residence.

8.2.
In the court's opinion, the defendant has not wrongly taken the position that it has not been established that the plaintiffs are suffering from long-term illness and unemployment after 24 September 2016. In addition, in this case unemployment and long-term illness do not fall under one of the situations referred to in the second paragraph of Article 6 of the Decree 1/80. The claimant has not substantiated the defendant's arguments.

In addition, the court is of the opinion that the defendant rightly states that the claimant no longer derives any rights from Article 6 of Decree 1/80. Now that the plaintiff has not performed his duties on the basis of an undisputed right of residence, it cannot be stated that the plaintiff has performed legal work until 10 April 2018. In this respect it is important that the respondent only partially acknowledged that there was an incorrect decision; that recognition was only about the date of the withdrawal.

The professional ground is unsuccessful.

Three-year policy

9. Plaintiff argues that on October 22, 2018 there was a three-year relevant time lapse since the filing of the application on October 22, 2015. Therefore, based on the three-year policy, he is eligible for a residence permit. On October 22, 2018, there was not yet an irrevocable decision on his application. Plaintiff refers to the judgment of this court, seat Amsterdam, of September 20, 2018. Plaintiff also refers to the judgment of the Division of February 22, 2008. In this judgment, the Division has considered that it does not follow from the legal provisions that plaintiff in his application , in addition to the specific purpose of stay, must also specify the restriction. It is up to the respondent to determine which restriction to attach to the residence permit applies in response to the specified purpose of stay.

9.1.
The policy, as laid down in paragraph A4 / 6.22 of the Aliens Act 1994, states - insofar as it is relevant - that the mere passage of time in a residence permit procedure is generally not a reason to accept residence. This policy is assessed because the claimant falls under the application of the 'stand still' provision of Article 13 of the Decree 1/80. A foreign national in regular affairs receives a permit with a restriction under the three-year policy, if the following three cumulative conditions are met:

at least three years have elapsed since the date of the application for admission and the foreign national has not yet received a decision or an irrevocable decision on his application, while the original intended purpose of residence still applies; and

the expulsion was omitted for policy reasons; that is, for a reason related to the purpose of residence; and

there are no contraindications.

9.2.
The decision of this court and seat of 21 September 2018 should be read so that only the appeal, insofar as directed against primary decision 2, is declared well-founded (and then only with regard to the date of withdrawal of the residence permit granted). The court has declared the grounds of appeal, directed against the assessment of the defendant of the claimant's application for continued residence, as laid down in primary decision 1, unfounded. As stated, the court must assume that these grounds of appeal are correct. Therefore, the court is of the opinion that on 21 September 2018 there was an irrevocable decision on the application. This means that the claimant does not meet the first condition of the policy. The reference to the decision of this court, seat Amsterdam, cannot lead to a different judgment. In that case, it was disputed whether the second condition of the policy was met. The reference to the Division's decision of 22 February 2008 does not alter the above either. After all, a decision was made within three years. Under which specific purpose of stay or more specifically which restriction is not relevant. The professional ground is unsuccessful.

10. The appeal is unfounded. There is no reason for a legal costs order.

5 Decision
The court declares the appeal unfounded.

This statement was made by mr. J.H. van Breda, judge, in the presence of R. Visscher, registrar.

The decision was publicly pronounced on February 14, 2020.

registrar

judge

Copy sent to parties on:

Remedy

The parties may appeal against the appeal decision to the Council of State, Administrative Law Division, Higher Appeal in Immigration Affairs, PO Box 16113, 2500 BC The Hague, within four weeks after the copy has been sent. The notice of appeal must contain one or more complaints against the decision. Article 6: 6 of the Awb does not apply. A copy of the judgment must be submitted. More information can be found on the website of the Council of State (www.raadvanstate.nl).

Case number: AWB 18/2457; not published.