Pronunciation


Court THE HAGUE

Multiple room

Trial numbers: FA RK 17-1990 and FA RK 18-3719

Case numbers: C / 09/528922 and C / 09/553638

Date of decision: July 17, 2019

Divorce with ancillary provisions
Decision on the request received on 14 March 2017 from:
[Y],
the man,

residing in Qatar,

lawyer: mr. C.L.M. Smeets in Amsterdam.

Interested parties are:

[X],
the woman,

residing in [place of residence],

lawyer: mr. drs. E.J. Kim-Meijer in The Hague.

1 Proceedings
By order of April 17, 2019 of this court:

the divorce between the man and the woman pronounced;

determines that [minor] will have her primary residence with the woman;

stipulates that [minor] will be with the man: once a month for a number of days, where the man comes to the Netherlands or [minor] goes to the man in Qatar and during three weeks on holiday (in Qatar), where the man will inform the woman by e-mail as soon as he knows what his work schedule will look like, so that the parents can mutually agree on the dates on which the man and [minor] will have contact;

in accordance with the agreements between the man and the woman with regard to the contribution to be paid by the man for the care and upbringing of [minor], that the man:

- will pay a child maintenance for [minor] to the woman of € 2,500 per month;

- will pay the "school fees" for the [name of the school];

- the costs for the study of [minor] will be met as soon as [minor] starts studying;

- stipulated that with effect from the day that the divorce order will be entered in the registers of civil status, the husband will pay her living expenses an amount of € 7,870 net per month, which contribution will be paid two years after registration of the divorce is reduced to € 6,394 net per month and subsequently amounts to € 5,000 net per month three years after registration of the divorce.

The court has retained any further decision regarding the distribution of the matrimonial community and the pensions as well as the legal costs to allow both parties to file a legal opinion in which the law of the State of Texas governs matrimonial property and old-age pensions is explained and explained.

The court subsequently received the following documents:

- the F9 form of 1 May 2019, with attachments, from the woman's side;

- the F9 form of 1 May 2019, with attachments, from the man's side;

- the F9 form dated 14 May 2019, with attachments, from the woman's side;

- the fax of 23 May 2019 from the side of the man;

- the fax of 3 June 2019 on the part of the woman.

The court has appointed mr. C.L.M. Smeets and mr. E.J. Kim-Meijer was informed in writing on 20 June 2019 of a change of seat within the multiple chamber that is dealing with this case.

2 Reasons of the Decision
The court maintains all that has been considered and decided by said order, unless otherwise considered or decided in this order.

Documents received

The court gave both parties an opportunity to file a legal advisory by May 1, 2019, setting out and explaining Texas state law regarding matrimonial property and retirement pension. The parties also had to take positions on:

a) which reference date should be used for the size / composition of the (possible) marriage community,

b) the size of the marriage community (if any),

(c) which reference date should be used for the valuation of the components and

d) how the components should be distributed.

If requested, the court received legal advice (with annexes) from both parties on 1 May 2019. Subsequently, both parties were given the opportunity until 15 May 2019 at the latest to respond to each other's legal advice and the positions taken by the other regarding the aforementioned points a to d.

On May 15, 2019, the court delivered the letter from Mr. E.J. Kim-Meijer received from May 14, 2019. Mr. C.L.M. By fax of 23 May 2019, Smeets objected to the content of this letter, because in her opinion this letter goes far beyond the mandate of the court as included in the order of 17 April 2019. Mr. C.L.M. On behalf of the man, Smeets requests that he ignore the contents of this letter or give the man a further period to respond to the contents of that letter.

The court will hear the letter of May 14, 2019 - insofar as the content of this letter is not a response to Mr C.L.M. Legal advice submitted by Smeets - disregarded. After all, it was the intention that in that written round only a response would be submitted to each other's legal advice and the positions taken on the application of Texan law to the distribution of matrimonial property. The court has not given the opportunity to take additional positions and to formulate (new) requests. The court will therefore not take cognizance of this. This also means that the court mr. C.L.M. Will not give Smeets the opportunity to still respond substantively to the letter from Mr. E.J. Kim-Meijer from May 14, 2019.

The court will then determine the further progress of the procedure.

3 Appeal

The court will give both parties the opportunity to submit a list in Dutch of all assets and debts on the reference date. The components must be classified in this list in accordance with Texan law as common goods ("community property"), private goods ("separate property") or mixed goods ("mixed assets"). For the time being, the court considers it sufficiently informed about the (method of) valuation of the components and the factors that can be taken into account in the division of the matrimonial community and orders the parties to limit themselves to the above subdivision.

Mr. C.L.M. Smeets and mr. E.J. Kim-Meijer will have the opportunity to submit the aforementioned further information until 1 September 2019 at the latest. Subsequently, they will both have until 8 September 2019 to respond to each other in writing.

In the unlikely event that the above is not and / or not met in time, the court will be able to attach the consequences it deems appropriate on the basis of Article 22 DCCP.

The court will hold any further decision regarding the settlement of the matrimonial property, the pension entitlements and the legal costs until pro forma September 15, 2019.

4 Decision
The court:

determines the progress of the procedure regarding the division of the matrimonial community and the pension entitlements in the manner as previously considered under the heading "Progress procedure";

maintains any further decision regarding the distribution, pension entitlements and legal costs until pro forma September 15, 2019.

This decision was made by mrs. J.Th.W. van Ravenstein, C.G. Meeder and

L. van Hoppe, Judges, assisted by Mr M. Verkerk as Registrar, and pronounced in open session on July 17, 2019, for the absence of the Chairman signed on this date by Mr C.G. Meeder.