Pronunciation


COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE HERTOGENBOSCH
Personal and family law team

case number 200.255.868 / 01

judgment of March 10, 2020

in the case of

[the man] ,

residing in [place of residence],

appellant in principal appeal,

respondent in conditional incidental appeal,

hereinafter referred to as the man,

lawyer: mr. M.C.S. Lalesse in 's-Hertogenbosch,

against

[the woman] ,

residing in [place of residence],

respondent in principal appeal,

appellant in conditional incidental appeal,

hereinafter referred to as the woman,

lawyer: mr. C.A.M.J. de Wit in Veghel,

as a follow-up to the interim judgment of 10 December 2019 brought by the court in the appeal of the judgments of 6 September issued by the court of Oost-Brabant, seat 's-Hertogenbosch, under case number C / 01/322899 / HA ZA 17-446 2017, July 4, 2018 and December 5, 2018.

1 Proceedings
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

the interim judgment of December 10, 2019 in which the court ordered a plea;

the summons on appeal;

the statement of grievances with productions;

the memorandum of reply with productions;

the deed of production of productions for the plea of ​​the woman;

the plea, in which parties submitted pleading notes.

The court then set a date for judgment. The court does justice to the above-mentioned documents and the documents of the first instance.

2  Facts
6.1.
The following facts can be assumed in this appeal.

the parties were married on April 25, 2003 in the legal community of property;

two children who are still minors are still born from marriage, namely:

o [minor 1], born on [date of birth] 2006 in [place of birth];

o [minor 2], born on [date of birth] 2007 in [place of birth];

received the divorce petition at the Oost-Brabant District Court on 22 January 2016;

the court ordered the divorce between the parties by order of 31 March 2016;

the divorce decision also provides that the parenting plan attached to that decision and certified by the registrar is part of that decision;

The parties have regulated the consequences of their divorce in a divorce settlement signed by both parties on 26 June 2016 (hereinafter: the covenant).

6.2.
The Court of Appeal has taken note of the content of the covenant, in which covenant the parties have agreed the following, among other things:

“3. REAL HOUSE

3.1
The woman grants the man the right of habitation of the house belonging to their property to [address] in [place]. This right ends when the man leaves the house immediately. The law also ends if the court determines this at the request of the man, due to the presence of special circumstances that make it impossible for the man to be held to this obligation. When the right of habitation ends, the man will leave the house in time and voluntarily.

3.2
The husband and wife do not owe each other compensation for the right of habitation.

3.3
The man ensures that the buildings are and remain properly insured; he bears the premium of the home insurance. The owner's costs concerning the house, such as the real estate tax assessment, are for the account of the husband; the user charges, such as the real estate tax assessment for the actual use, costs of gas, electricity, water, etc. are for the account of the man. The man also ensures timely payment of the interest of the mortgage, which is located on the property at [address] in [place], as long as the man lives there. Should the bank decide that a monthly repayment should take place, this repayment will also be paid by the man. When the house is sold, these repayments will be settled between the parties. And the agency fees are split between the man and the woman.

3.4
Should the man no longer be able to meet the obligations in 3.3. the husband will immediately notify the wife of this in writing, so that both parties can decide on the property. See also points 3.9 and 3.10.

3.5
The husband is not allowed to establish a second or third mortgage on their joint property without the wife having been released from the joint and several liability of the currently established mortgages.

3.7
The man and the woman agree 3x a year that they, together with the accountant if necessary, will meet to discuss the financial situation regarding the costs of the home. As long as the mortgage is also in the woman's name.

3.9
When the house is sold, the fees will be settled and settled. This fee is set out in the appendix in this covenant.

3.10
Both the man and the woman agree together on the sale amount of € 285,000 of the house. If the house is sold for more than € 285,000, then the woman is not entitled to the capital gain. If the house is sold for less than € 285,000, this amount is the starting point. The property was valued at € 285,000 in July 2015 by [brokerage] brokerage. When the house is sold, the costs of the broker are divided by the man and the woman.

3.11
The house will be sold within two years, starting from January 2016. Or the man can buy the woman out. See appendix calculation. Unless the man does not fulfill his obligations as mentioned under point 3.4. In that case, the house is immediately put up for sale.

(…)

8. TAX REGULATION

The income tax and health insurance assessments of [sole proprietorship] will be paid together until 1-8-2015.

Provisional assessment of income tax and national insurance contributions 2014 € 9,408.00: 2 (has [the woman] already paid), the man pays half of the costs to the woman

Provisional health insurance assessment for 2014 € 1,560.00: 2 (has [the woman] already paid), the man pays half of the costs to the woman

Provisional income tax assessment 2015 to 1 August will follow and will be shared

Provisional assessment for health insurance from 2015 to 1 August will follow and will be shared

9. CHILD BOND BUDGET

The father receives a child-related budget for [minor 1], € 250 per month

The mother receives a child-related budget for [minor 2], € 250 per month

These amounts are deposited in a joint account [account number] for the children.

(…)

11. DISTRIBUTION OF MARRIAGE COMMUNITY

11.1
The parties agree that the reference date for determining the size and value of the matrimonial community is August 1, 2015.

11.2
The community includes the following assets:

The sole proprietorship [sole proprietorship], agreed value on reference date 1 August 2015, is € 60,000.00. These are divided between the man and the woman, each € 30,000. (…)

11.3
Pursuant to the above division, the husband owes the wife an amount of € 12,264 due to over-payment, to be paid at the time of sale and delivery of the matrimonial home.

12. DISCLAIMER AND FINAL DISCHARGE

The parties further declare, subject to the aforementioned rights and obligations, to no longer claim from each other for any reason whatsoever and to grant each other total and final discharge and discharge by signing this covenant.

13. FINAL PROVISION

The parties undertake to fully terminate this agreement in part on the basis of any shortcoming in the fulfillment thereof. Compliance can always be claimed, with or without compensation. ”

6.2.1.
In the present proceedings, the woman claims by convention:

Primary:

To allocate the home to the woman at a value of € 285,000 under the obligation to have the man fired for his joint and several liability with Rabobank for the loan with numbers [loan number 1] and [loan number 2] as well as the to pay the debt to [name] and indemnify the man for this, and under the obligation to pay the man an amount of € 55,661, with payment of the amount of the parties towards each other with regard to the separation and division from the matrimonial community existing between them,

1. In the alternative:

A. Command the man to:

to commission the real estate agency [brokerage] in [office place] within five weeks of the judgment by signing a written agreement to sell the house;

cooperate with viewings of the house for sale;

to do or omit everything that is necessary to come to the sale and delivery of the house;

to cooperate in signing the deed of delivery if the house has been sold;

vacate the house before the delivery date stated in the purchase agreement.

B. Convict the husband to pay the woman a penalty of € 2,500.00 per violation of the provisions under A with a maximum of € 75,000.00, or at least an amount to be determined in good justice.

C. If the maximum amount of the penalty payment has been reached, to authorize the woman to sell the house and deliver it to a third party, also on behalf of the husband,

D. Obliging the husband to vacate the property one week before the delivery date agreed with a third party by the wife, with the wife's authorization to have the property vacated at the expense of the husband in case he fails to do so.

2. Order the man to pay the woman € 8,677.00 in respect of the tax assessments for the period 1 January 2014 to 1 August 2015,

3. Convict the man to pay an amount of € 6,625 within three days after the judgment into account number [account number], plus € 265 per month from 1 March 2018 and increased by interest on that date the monthly amount was owed, and forbidding the man to withdraw these funds on forfeiture of a penalty payment of € 200 per day or part of a day that the man defaults with this, with a maximum of € 5,000.00, at least such a penalty and maximum as the court deems correct,

All this with condemnation of the man in the legal costs.

3 Appeal

6.2.2.
In summary, the woman has based the following on this claim.

The divorce settlement stipulates that the (former) matrimonial home must be sold within two years after January 1, 2016 - therefore before January 1, 2018, and that the man can “buy out” the woman. The wife wishes, in view of this period and now she cannot be expected to maintain a common good and debt with the husband and the husband has been unable to arrange the wife's resignation from joint and several liability, briefly said primarily that the house is allocated to her or alternatively that this house is sold.

In addition, the wife still has money from the husband, related to tax assessments and child-related budgets.

6.2.3.
The man put up a motivated defense. Insofar as relevant in appeal, this defense will be discussed below.

6.2.4.
In the interlocutory judgment of 6 September 2017, the court ordered a comparison of the parties.

6.2.5.
In the interlocutory judgment of July 4, 2018, the court determined that the case will come on the record for the taking of a deed by the man about what in that judgment in par. 4.5.2 has been considered, the woman will be given the opportunity to take a record of what is stated in para. 4.4 and any further decision is apprehended.

6.2.6.
In the final judgment of December 5, 2018, the court:

the house at [address] in [place] allocated to the woman at a value of € 290,000.00 under the obligation of the woman to take out the mortgage loans and to have the man released from the joint and several liability for these loans as well as to pay the loan of [name] of € 27,266.00;

ordered the man to cooperate with the delivery of the house;

the woman convicted of excessive distribution, as stated in para. 4.5.1 of the interim judgment of July 4, 2018, for payment to the man of € 51,780.50;

the man sentenced to pay to the woman an amount of € 3,193.16 in connection with the 2015 tax assessments;

the man sentenced to payment to the woman in connection with the child-related budget of € 6,625 as well as an amount of € 265 per month as of 1 March 2018, plus statutory interest on the monthly installments, each time from the date on which the man should have paid the amount of € 265 to the woman;

determines that the woman is obliged to pay the costs associated with the implementation of the distribution;

this judgment declared enforceable with stock;

compensated the costs of the procedure between the parties;

the more or less advanced rejected.

6.3.
The woman has ordered the husband to cooperate with the delivery of the house and, in the absence of cooperation from the husband, initiated summary proceedings on the basis of a summons of 25 January 2019. The man, in summary proceedings, has in turn filed for counterclaim in order to suspend the execution of the judgment of 5 December 2018 with regard to parts 3.1 to 3.5 of the operative part.

In his judgment of 6 March 2019, the preliminary relief judge has:

In convention:

provides that this judgment takes the place of the signature of the man under the notarial deed of transfer which serves to deliver the share of the man in the house located at [address] ([postcode]) in [place] to the woman, under the condition that in the deed of transport only those amounts may be settled between parties, which are stated in the operative part of the judgment of the court of East Brabant of 5 December 2018;

the man sentenced to vacate the house at [address] in [place] no later than March 20, 2019 with all his and all his own and to keep it vacated, leaving behind the earth and nail-proof items present in the house;

the woman is empowered to evacuate the home at the husband's expense with the aid of the strong arm of the judiciary and the police if he fails to do so under the terms of the robbery. 7.2 to comply with that judgment;

the judgment declared enforceable with stock;

the more or less advanced rejected.

In counterclaim:

The more or less advanced rejected.

6.3.1
The man, as he confirmed during the plea, did not appeal against the aforementioned judgment of the preliminary relief judge of 6 March 2019.

6.4.
The (former) marital home was delivered to the woman on March 27, 2019.

6.5.
The man did, however, appeal against the judgments of September 6, 2017, July 4, 2018 and December 5, 2018 by subpoena of February 27, 2019 and he raised six complaints. He requests, as far as practicable with stock, to annul the judgments of the court of East Brabant of September 6, 2017, July 4, 2018 and December 5, 2018 and, again, by judgment, fully enforceable with stock and under improvement and / or addition of grounds, to declare the woman inadmissible in her claims or to reject the claims of the woman (as yet) in full and, as far as possible, enforceable with stock:

With regard to the home at [address] in [place] and the amount of over-distribution:

to distribute the house to [address] in [place] to the man at a value of € 290,000, under the obligation of the man, insofar as (still) possible, the mortgage loans from Rabobank under loan numbers [loan number 1] and [loan number 2] and to have the woman released from joint and several liability for these loans, as well as to pay the loan of [name] of € 27,226;

order the woman to cooperate in the delivery of the house to the man;

order the man for payment to the woman of € 14,764.50, or an amount to be determined by the court in good justice, due to excessive payment in connection with the allocation of the house to him;

alternatively, in case the house is not allocated to the husband, to convict the wife to pay an amount of € 88,796.50 to the husband due to over-provision, or an amount to be determined by the court in good justice.

With regard to the child-related budget:

- declare the woman inadmissible in her claims and, in case the court declares the woman admissible in her claim, dismiss her claim and condemn the woman for the amounts paid by the man under the judgment of 5 December Has paid 2018 to the woman, namely to repay the man the amount of € 6,625 as well as the amounts of € 265 per month with effect from 1 March 2018 plus statutory interest;

With the woman ordered to pay the costs of both institutions.

6.6.
The woman claims to declare the man inadmissible in his appeal or to dismiss the appeal as unfounded by ordering the man to pay the costs of these proceedings.

In the alternative, if complaint 5 is upheld, the woman claims that the covenant be annulled with regard to the part that she still has to pay the husband € 30,000 in respect of her business because, when paying another € 30,000, she the man is at a disadvantage and she has erred in the amount to be originally paid to the man.

Allocation of (former) marital home

6.7.
With grievances 1 to 4, the husband intends to submit the allocation of the (former) matrimonial home for assessment. The man takes the position that the house should be allocated to him. To this end, he argues in the documents that he had purchased the house for some time before the wedding and that he had improved, adapted and renovated this house both before and during the marriage. The man has not only invested time, but also a lot of money in this house. Unlike the woman, the man wanted to continue living in the house, but initially did not have the financial means to do so. For this reason, the parties have mutually agreed that the continued use of the home was allocated to the husband under the obligation to cover all costs and expenses associated with the habitation. The parties further agreed that the house would be sold within two years, starting from January 2016, or that the man would take over the house under the obligation to pay half of the equity to the woman. The parties had agreed that they should [only] consult each other in January 2018 what should be done with the house - allocate it to the man or sell it - but the woman has already started the man in violation of this agreement. 2017 sent a letter in which she stated that the house must have been sold or must have been allocated to the man before 1 January 2018, and that the house could be allocated to her. Subsequently, in the present proceedings, the woman demanded (inter alia) that the house be allocated to her. The man did not put up a defense at first instance and now wishes to do so. He points out that his circumstances changed considerably after the judgment of December 5, 2018 and that he now has the financial possibilities to have the property allocated to him under the obligation to take out the mortgage loans and have the woman fired joint and several liability for these loans as well as to take out the loan of [name]. Unlike the woman, the man has now provided concrete documents showing that he has the financial means to do so. The woman had a rental home during the proceedings at first instance, unlike the man who stays with an acquaintance of whom it is not known how long he can stay there with the risk that he will have to live a wandering life. Not having a suitable living space also means that he cannot comply with the care and contact arrangements with the children. The court should have taken this into account. Furthermore, the court has wrongly not taken into account the provisions of art. 3: 178 paragraph 3 BW and the woman has insufficiently demonstrated why she could not be required to leave the former matrimonial home undivided. Therefore, the court could not reasonably have concluded that the house was allocated to the woman.

6.8.
The woman wishes ratification of the contested judgment on this point. The woman was aware that the husband wanted to continue to live in the (former) marital home and she has been benevolent in this, but the husband has not lived up to the two-year period granted to him in the covenant. Although the man states that he now has the financial means to be able to have the house allocated, regardless of the fact that he is late with this, the man also now fails to provide evidence of this statement. Insofar as changed circumstances would already play a role - which is not the case - these lie in the fact that the house is now in the wife's name and the husband has been released from his joint and several liability regarding the mortgages and repayment of the loan. from [name]. The woman disputes that the man has a wandering existence, whether he stays with his mother or can do that. The care and contact scheme can also be implemented there. However, these aspects are independent of the distribution. The procedure initiated by the woman was not premature and proved necessary. The court rendered its judgment well after 1 January 2018. The woman cannot be required to remain indivisible. The man states without further explanation that the court has wrongly not taken into account the provisions of art. 3: 178 paragraph 3 BW, but the man has not made a request to that effect in the first instance. Contrary to the man's assertion, in light of art. 3: 178 paragraph 1 BW acted correctly. Any participant can claim division at any time. There are no exceptions, so there is no room for a balance of interests.

4 Reasons of the Decision
6.9.
The court rules as follows.

The covenant stipulates that the house must be sold within two years, starting from January 2016, or that the man buys out the woman. According to the woman, a two-year term also applies to the buyout, from January 2016; according to the man, parties have agreed that they should discuss what should happen to the house in January 2018. If the husband argues that after the covenant the parties have made the appointment he has made, the wife has contradicted it with sufficient reasons. Insofar as the man argues that the covenant should be understood in that sense, there is therefore a dispute about the interpretation of the covenant.

This explanation should be made using the Haviltex standard (HR March 13, 1981, ECLI: NL: HR: 1981: AG4158):

“The question how in a written contract the ratio of pp. has been settled and whether this contract leaves a gap that needs to be filled cannot be answered on the basis of a purely linguistic explanation of the provisions of that contract. After all, the answer to that question depends on the sentence that pp. in the given circumstances could reasonably grant these provisions to each other and to what they could reasonably expect from each other in this respect. It may also be important to which social circles pp. and which legal knowledge of such a pp. can be expected. ”

In this explanation, the judge must take into account all the special circumstances of the given case, valued according to what the standards of reasonableness and fairness entail (HR 20 February 2004, ECLI: NL: HR: 2004: AO1427).

The Haviltex standard states that the explanation must be made on the basis of the doctrine of will-trust, as laid down in art. 3:33 and 3:35 BW. It is not a matter of determining what is literally laid down in the settlement agreement, but of what the parties could reasonably infer from each other's statements (cf. HR February 24, 2017, ECLI: NL: HR: 2017: 315).

The man does not offer any leads for the explanation he advocates. He refrains from explaining why a two-year period applies to effect the sale (whereas sales depend on the functioning of the market, in particular on the uncertainty of whether a buyer is present), but before the allocation to him, which is regulated in the same Article 3.11, whereby there is no such uncertainty (no buyer has to present himself; the man himself wants to take over the house) a longer period should apply, after which consultation should also take place. (A shorter term for takeover would then be more reasonable.) The consultations that the man invokes after the two-year period, moreover, do not relate to the intent of the covenant to end disputes correctly. Rather, as the woman argues, Art. 3.11 to be understood thus that the term of two years also applies to the takeover of the house by the man. That is the sentence that the parties make to art. 3.11 and that is also what the parties could reasonably expect from each other. It is undisputed that - due to lack of financial opportunities - the man has not succeeded in taking over the house under the agreed conditions before the term thus understood. Moreover, the man did not attempt to substantiate with financial data until after the judgment of 5 December 2018 - therefore well after January 2018 - that he would be financially able to take over the house under the agreed conditions. In view of the above, the man can no longer invoke the covenant for allocating the house to him.

6.10.
Pursuant to art. 3: 178 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, each of the partners can at all times demand the distribution of a common property, unless the nature of the community or the provisions of the other paragraphs of that article provide otherwise. Now that the covenant has not been able to result in the lifting of the undivided partitions between the parties, the woman was thus free to demand (anyway) division of the house. If the division is requested to be determined by the court, as in this case, each of the parties involved can put forward how it considers this division should take place, without the court being bound by what the parties thus propose. This judicial freedom is explained by the nature of the adjudication. With due observance of this, the Court of Appeal considers as follows.

6.10.1.
At the hearing it turned out that the woman now resides in the (former) marital home, together with the children of the parties, who both have their primary residence with the woman. It has also been found that there is currently little contact between the man and the children, so that the children often stay in the house with the woman. The man has now taken up independent living space elsewhere, so that a lack of housing in itself cannot stand in the way of any contact with the children.

The man has stated that he is now financially able to take over the house and has submitted a “Plan” dated 16 January 2019 from Rabobank for a loan of € 143,600 to support this, but At the hearing, the man acknowledged that this “plan” cannot be seen as a binding offer from the bank, so that it has not been established on appeal that allocation of the house to the man is financially feasible. Although the man claims that the woman has not demonstrated this with the documents submitted by her, he does, however, given the situation that the woman has already enforced the judgment of the court and that she has now become the sole owner of the house by has become a home, the financial feasibility of women has now become a reality.

6.10.2.
Finally, the man argues that the court has wrongly not taken into account the provisions of art. 3: 178 paragraph 3 BW. This article provides that if the interests of one or more of the partners affected by an immediate distribution are significantly greater than the interests served by the distribution, the court before which a claim for distribution is pending, at the request of a participant, one or more times, each time for a maximum of three years, can exclude a claim for distribution. When answering the question whether the interests affected by the distribution are significantly larger than the interests served by the distribution, the interests of both parties must be weighed against each other, taking into account all the facts and circumstances of the case.

However, now that the man has failed to concretize why his interests affected by the division outweigh the interests served by the division, the court ignores this.

6.10.3.
In view of all the above, seen in conjunction, the Court of Appeal sees reason to ratify the judgment of which appeal is made on this point.

Amount due in respect of the company [sole proprietorship]; a donation; the engine; and Ford Mondeo

6.11.
The man complains that the court did not make a decision in the final judgment about the amounts that the parties still have to settle with each other in accordance with (appendix 3.9 of) the covenant. To this end, he argues that the woman has claimed compliance with the agreements made in the covenant and that this also includes the payment of € 42,500 by the woman to the man. The man claims compliance with the agreements in the covenant, so that the woman still has to pay the man an amount of € 42,500. Although the woman claims that she has already paid money to the husband in respect of the (settlement of) the company, the man denies that these payments concerned the settlement of the company.

6.11.1.
The woman does not deny that under the covenant she owes the man an amount of € 42,500 for (1) [sole proprietorship], (2) a donation, (3) the motor and (4) the Ford Mondeo. However, the woman has already transferred to the man an amount of € 33,135.50, an amount of € 3,223 and an amount of € 2,000, or together € 38,358.50 for the settlement of the company. She transferred these amounts to the man on August 2, 2015, being one day after the agreed reference date of August 1, 2015. In support of this, the woman brought bank statements to the court, from which it appears. When drawing up the covenant, the parties simply did not realize that the company had already been divided. However, the intention of the parties is and was clear. It cannot be the case that the woman has to pay another € 30,000 to the man as a result of excessive distribution of the company. If this were the case, the woman claims that she has erred, now that if she paid another € 30,000, she would be disadvantaged for more than a quarter, so that the covenant should be destroyed.

6.11.2.
First of all, the Court of Appeal established that the following appears from appendix 3.9 to the covenant:

“[Sole proprietorship] value company 1-8-2015 € 30,000

Gift of parents [the husband] (notarized) € 10,000

Motor € 1,000

car Ford Mondeo, added value compared to car Rover € 1,500

Total € 42,500 ([the woman] pay to [the man]) ”

6.11.3.
The Court of Appeal also finds that there is no dispute between the parties that the woman must pay these amounts of € 42,500 in total to the man on account of excessive distribution. However, the woman states that she has already paid € 38,358.50. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that with the bank statements of [sole proprietorship] submitted by the woman it has been sufficiently established that the woman has already paid the man an amount of € 33,135 as well as an amount of € 3,223. , therefore a total of € 36,358.- and also that these amounts have been paid to settle the relevant debt under the covenant. The woman transferred the amounts to the man on 2 August 2015, one day after the agreed reference date of 1 August 2015. Why the woman would have transferred the amounts differently, the man failed to explain. The mere bare denial of the man that the payments of € 33,135 and € 3,223 do not relate to the woman's over-distribution under the company cannot serve as a reasoned dispute. There is therefore no question of a sufficiently motivated defense). However, this has not been established for the amount of € 2,000 mentioned by the woman, now that this amount concerns a transfer to the bank account of the woman herself. It is true that the woman has stated that the amount paid for the transfer on behalf of the company was more than the amount of € 30,000 included in the covenant, but now that she does not draw any conclusions from this, the court finds that the woman due to over-payment in respect of (1) [sole proprietorship], (2) the donation, (3) the engine and (4) the car Ford Mondeo still has to pay an amount of € 6.142, - (€ 42.500, - minus € 36,358). Thus the man's complaint 5 succeeds in part. The other statements and defenses no longer need further discussion.

Child-related budget

6.12.
At the hearing, it appeared that there is no dispute between the parties that the man no longer receives a child-related budget for [minor 1] from 12 April 2019, since [minor 1] is registered at the woman's address from that date, so that from that date the obligation of the man to pay € 265 per month to the woman has ended.

It has also been shown that there is no longer any dispute between the parties that the man owed the woman an amount of € 6,625 in respect of overdue child-related budgets, and that the man has already paid this amount to the woman. In view of this, this subject no longer needs further discussion and the court will uphold the judgment of which appeal on this point for the period until April 12, 2019 and annul it for the period from April 12, 2019. With this, complaint 6 of the man partially succeeds.

Offer of Evidence

6.13.
The man has offered evidence of all his statements. The court finds this offer of evidence of the man insufficiently concrete and specified, in view of the requirements that can be appealed to it. Thus the court ignores this.

Litigation costs

6.14.
The man has advanced to order the woman to pay the costs in both instances.

6.14.1.
The woman, in turn, has demanded that the man be ordered to pay the costs of these proceedings.

6.14.2.
The court considers as follows. Now that the husband and wife have been unsuccessful, the legal costs are compensated in such a way that each party bears its own costs.

5 Decision
The Council:

sets aside the contested judgment of 5 December 2018, but only insofar as it concerns the amount to be paid by the man to the woman with effect from 12 April 2019, in respect of the child-related budget, and in so far as follows:

with effect from 12 April 2019, the amount to be paid by the man to the woman in respect of the child-related budget is nil;

ratifies the judgment of which appeal, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court, for the rest;

orders the woman, in addition to the contested judgment, to pay € 6,142 in respect of over-payment in this respect [sole proprietorship], gift of parents of the man (notarized), the motorcycle and the car Ford Mondeo (added value compared to from car Rover);

declares this judgment as far as enforceable with stock;

offsets the legal costs in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise advanced.

This judgment was given by mrs. G.J. Vossestein, M.J. van Laarhoven and T.J. Mellema-Kranenburg and was pronounced in public by the role councilor on March 10, 2020.

clerk of the court councilor