Pronunciation


COURT OF THE HAGUE
Civil Law Department

Verdict: December 18, 2019

Case number: 200.247.105 / 01

Court judgment number: FA RK 17-4892 and FA RK 18-4146

Case number court: C / 09/535057 and C / 09/554525

[appellant],

residing in [place of residence],

applicant, also occasional defendant, on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer mr. G.J.M. Gussenhoven in Zeist,

against

[respondent],

residing in [place of residence] (Malaysia),

defendant, also occasional applicant, on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer mr. W.A. van der Stroom-Willemsen in Rotterdam.

1 Proceedings

On 2 October 2018, the man appealed against a decision of 3 July 2018 from the court of The Hague, hereinafter: the contested decision.

On 25 January 2019, the woman filed a statement of defense also containing an incidental appeal.

The man filed a statement of defense on the cross-appeal on 22 March 2019.

The following documents were also received at the court:

on the part of the man:

- on 4 December 2018, a V form of 3 December 2018 with attachments;

- on December 13, 2018 a V form of December 10, 2018 with attachments;

- a V form of the same date with attachments on 18 October 2019;

- a V form of the same date with attachments on 21 October 2019;

- a fax letter of October 27, 2019 with a V form of the same date as an attachment on October 28, 2019;

- on 31 October 2019 a V form of the same date with attachments;

- an email message with attachments on 31 October 2019;

on the part of the woman:

on October 15, 2019 a V form of October 14, 2019 with attachments;

on January 25, 2019 a V-form of the same date with appendix (amended / correct petition of the requests in cross-appeal);

on 30 October 2019 a V form of the same date with an attachment;

on 31 October 2019 a V form of the same date with attachments.

The case was heard orally on November 1, 2019.

The following were present at the hearing:

- the man, assisted by his lawyer, accompanied by Mr C. Waanders, an office colleague;

- the woman, assisted by her lawyer, accompanied by Mr. E.J.M. Dubach, an office colleague as well as by [interpreter], interpreter in the English language.

2 Facts

The court refers to the contested decision for the course of the proceedings and the decision at first instance.

The divorce was pronounced between the parties in that order. Furthermore, feasible with stock is:

provides that, from the date on which the divorce order is entered in the civil registers, the husband will pay to the woman in the first five years for the care and upbringing of the minor to be named. € 2,290 per month, in the following five years an amount of € 2,165 per month and thereafter € 2,050 per month, to be paid in advance, and that the man also pays the annual school costs to the woman, provided that the woman demonstrates that she actually incurred or should incur these costs, for which purpose she will provide the husband with insight into the relevant invoice;

stipulates that the husband will pay an amount of € 3,000 (net) per month in the first five years as of the day on which the divorce order will be entered in the civil status registers. , an amount of € 2,000 (net) per month in the following five years and thereafter € 1,000 (net) per month, to be paid in advance;

in the context of the settlement of the matrimonial property regime under Andorran law, provided that the divorce decision is entered in the registers of civil status determined that i) the furniture is allocated to the woman, without further set-off ii) the woman serves the man to pay an amount of € 98,152.

The more or otherwise requested has been rejected.

The court starts from the facts established by the court, insofar as no appeal has been made against this.

The man has Dutch nationality. The woman is of Canadian and Brazilian nationality.

According to the woman, the divorce decision was entered in the registers of civil status on October 22, 2018. The man has not contradicted this.

3 Appeal

1. In dispute are:

the contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing (hereinafter also: child maintenance) of the minor [the minor], born [in] 2011 in [place of birth];

the contribution to the maintenance of the woman (hereinafter also: spousal maintenance);

the settlement of the matrimonial property regime of the parties.

2. The husband requests the contested decision to annul and, with effect, once again, to be enforceable in the case of decisions relating to child and spousal maintenance to be paid by the husband to the wife:

to grant the woman's request for child maintenance up to an amount of € 1,000 per month, plus school costs under the woman's obligation to make every effort to obtain a discount under this employment with the school of the minor and therefore as long as she does not generate income elsewhere;

reject the woman's request to establish spousal maintenance, or - in the event of (partial) allocation thereof - to determine that the man owes the woman a one-time lump sum of € 60,000, after which he is no longer liable for maintenance towards the woman or to determine that the maintenance obligation of the husband to the wife is limited in duration or set to nil in the manner as set out in paragraph 42 of the appeal.

3. The woman disputes the appeal and requests that the husband's requests be rejected and that the contested decision be ratified insofar as the cross-appeal does not request annulment, with or without amendment and / or addition of grounds.

In an incidental appeal - after an improved petitum as shown in her letter to the V form of 25 January 2019 - the woman requests the annulment of the contested decision with regard to child and partner maintenance as well as the settlement of property law, as the Court understands: settlement is subject to the judgment of the Court of Appeal, and, again, with or without judgment, with or without modification and / or addition of grounds:

With regard to the man's contribution to the woman's living costs:

primary: to order the man to pay a lump sum in the amount of € 465,360 gross, or to pay the woman the amount in good justice, to the woman within 4 weeks after the decision has been issued, deposit into the bank account of the woman in Andorra with account number [account number];

alternatively: order the man to pay the woman a contribution towards the cost of living of € 3,878 gross per month for the first five years; the following five years, a reduction as stated under marginal 135 and from the eleventh year € 2,715 gross per month, or an amount that the court of justice considers correct, to be paid monthly to the woman in advance;

With regard to the man's contribution to the care and education costs of the minor:

order the man to pay the minor's annual school / university costs, where the man pays the school costs to the woman, provided the woman demonstrates that she actually incurred or should incur these costs and that the university costs to be paid are set at a maximum of € 20,000 per year;

 in order to settle the matrimonial property regime under Andorran law, regarding the withdrawals of women:

primary: to declare that the woman owes nothing to the man;

in the alternative: to set the man's claim on the woman at € 70,000, after deduction of the amount already repaid by the woman;

With regard to the Honda car, type CRV:

primary: to grant the woman the exclusive right of use of the car, without further set-off;

alternatively: to set the value of the car at RM 101,000 (€ 21,950) and to distribute the car to the woman, after settlement of the said amount.

4. The husband opposes this and requests the grievances of the woman in incidental appeal to be rejected.

Procedural law

5. On the date on which her defense was lodged, the woman also sent an amended petition in incidental appeal to the Court of Appeal on the V form of the same date on 25 January 2019, since, after the statement of defense had been sent, the petitioner the petitum formulated therein turned out to be incorrect. Now that the woman's lawyer has raised no objections to this change, the court will proceed from the woman's amended request.

6. In the aforementioned fax letter of 28 October 2019, the man objected to the letter with appendices dated 14 October 2019 from the woman received at the court on 15 October 2019. This in view of the time of submission, size and content thereof. The woman responded by letter of 30 October 2019. It is of the opinion that, in submitting the further documents, it has not acted contrary to the proper procedure, since these documents were submitted in time.

7. The court will disregard the woman's documents received on October 15, 2019, since the court is of the opinion that the woman hereby grants herself a further written round with a letter covering 44 pages alone, apart from the associated 70 productions.

8. The court sees reason to first discuss spousal maintenance.

Partner maintenance
Jurisdiction and applicable law

9. Now that the man lives in the Netherlands, the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the maintenance request.

10. According to the husband, contrary to what the court has ruled, Dutch law applies to the wife's request for spousal maintenance. Under Article 5 of the Hague Alimony Protocol 2007, the main rule of Article 3 under which Malaysian law would apply should be departed from. The man argues for this:

the parties lived in the Netherlands before marriage on the basis of a Dutch cohabitation contract;

from their actual departure from the Netherlands to Andorra, where they lived for two years, they have always maintained their ties with the Netherlands. This also applies to the one-year and eight-month period they subsequently spent in Malaysia;

the parties were unable to foresee that Malaysian law would apply to their matrimonial property regime at the time of their marriage, and this is contrary to their legitimate expectations at the time.

11. According to the woman, Malaysian law applies to the determination of the amount and duration of spousal maintenance. What is relevant is not whether the husband but whether the marriage of the parties is more closely associated with Malaysia than with the Netherlands, and that is the case because:

parties are married in the Netherlands to leave abroad

the man spent the longest marriage period in Malaysia on paper.

12. The court agrees with the court that Malaysian law applies to a woman's request for spousal maintenance. The court takes over the grounds of the court and makes them his own. The man did not present any facts or circumstances on appeal that should lead to a different judgment. The ties between parties after the marriage with the Netherlands are extremely limited, since parties have only stayed in the Netherlands 10 days after the marriage and then moved to Andorra.

13. On the basis of the report of the International Legal Institute submitted by the woman and the legal opinions submitted by each of the parties, the court has ruled that the Malaysian law enforcement partner should primarily consider the issue of partner maintenance. according to the needs of the maintenance creditor and the capacity of the maintenance debtor. In addition, the level of life during marriage is a relevant aspect. In view of the relevant exchanged documents, the court also finds that the Malaysian partner maintenance system is comparable to that in the Netherlands. This means that if the man has no capacity to pay, there is no room for imposing spousal maintenance.

Need

14. The court finds that the woman's need of € 5,000 net per month on appeal is not disputed by the court, so that the court will also assume this need.

Neediness

15. Regardless of whether the husband has the capacity for spousal maintenance, the court sees reason to assess the earning capacity of the woman, since the husband has expressly grieved about this and the court's opinion in this regard may be relevant in possible future proceedings.

16. According to the man, the woman who has had a university education has worked at a high level for various international companies for over 15 years. The parties moved to Andorra and subsequently Malaysia for tax reasons. There was no financial need for the woman to go to work there. Only in 2016 did the woman start training to become a teacher on her own initiative. This has been her own choice, the financial consequences of which she must bear. The woman has all possible help in the home and garden and also childcare for the minor, so that she can resume her work at university level. The earning capacity of the woman must therefore be set at € 8,333.33 net per month. She then no longer has an additional need. In addition, the woman has assets from which she generates income. The man refers to various statements that support his speech. He disagrees with the phasing of the woman's earning capacity introduced by the court. The woman already knew in December 2016 that parties would split up and could have already looked for a job at her level with correspondingly high salary. According to settled case-law, that obligation also rests on it. In her defense, the woman also states incidentally appealing (paragraph 46) that her earning capacity is € 66,000. There is nothing to prevent the woman from living and working elsewhere with a higher salary, according to the man.

17. The woman disputes the statements of the husband thus:

her earning capacity has never been as high as the man says. The salary she enjoyed at [the man's former employer 3], where the man was working as her manager at the time, is not representative of her earning capacity, because the man favored her with a higher salary;

the woman's current job at the minor's international school enables her to provide him with the additional care the minor considers to be needed by the psychologist treating him;

the woman cannot simply terminate her five-year contract with the school;

her diplomas (bachelor economics, master econometrics, certificate public relations management) are out of date. She has no current work experience in her specialization. Nor is it possible to return to her last field of work - international health care sales - simply because she would have to travel a lot, which is not compatible with the care of the minor;

the man agreed and actively participated in the retraining of the woman into a teacher.

18. The woman submits her current employment contract, additional employment conditions and payslips from August-December 2018. It sets its earning capacity at € 1,122 net per month with an expected growth in about 10 years to € 2,285 net per month. According to the woman, she has no assets. In her occasional appeal, the woman calculates her need for an additional contribution from the husband for the first five years after the registration of the divorce decision at € 3,878 net per month (€ 5,000 minus € 1,122), which need subsequent years will continue to decrease to ultimately € 2,715 net per month (€ 5,000 minus € 2,285).

19. The court considers as follows. Also under Malaysian law, the main rule is that the woman must in principle make a living. At the hearing, the court and the woman discussed in detail the courses she followed and her career. In fact, it is undisputed that she was the last to have trained as a teacher and works as a teacher at the minor's international school. The woman submitted her relevant employment contract and payslips and explained this adequately at the hearing. In view of this, the court bases its earning capacity on the income that the woman actually earns and that she has substantiated with documents. It is evident that the woman still needs an additional contribution from the man, by the court, in accordance with the woman's calculation, set at € 3,878 net per month. The court sees no reason to determine the additional need after five years after the registration of the divorce decision, as this concerns a future, uncertain circumstance.

Carrying capacity

20. The court will assess the standing of the man below. Relevant is his income as of October 22, 2018, at least as of the registration date of the divorce decision.

21. The man does not agree with the earning capacity that the court has allocated to him. She should not have applied a "penalty discount" because of the man's return to the Netherlands. In addition, the return on the man's wealth does not constitute income to be taken into account when calculating his ability to pay.

Specifically, the man argues:

the termination of his contract of assignment with [former employer of the man 1], a US company, is not culpable;

the current earning capacity of the man is a maximum of € 120,000 gross per year (given the limited specialist area with few potential employers and his advanced age of [age]);

as long as the man has no income and makes an effort, the partner and child maintenance should be set at nil;

According to the man, income from property is separate from income from paid work. In addition, the return on the man's assets was € 14,784 net per year instead of the court's return of € 36,000 net per year;

the return to the Netherlands, which means that the man has to pay tax on his income again, should not affect the amount of earning capacity attributable to him. The man is of Dutch nationality, has only lived abroad for four years and only had a temporary residence permit in Malaysia. Moreover, he did not work in but from Malaysia.

In his defense against occasional appeal, the man still argues that he cannot be expected to intend on the pension accrued before marriage.

22. According to the woman, the man does indeed have a culpable loss of income and has effected his own dismissal with [former employer of the man 1]. In view of the past 15 years, the man has an earning capacity of € 25,679 net per month. His age doesn't get in the way. He has 20 years of work experience and has been approached several times by potential employers. Under Malaysian law, the man's own property (not just its return) is also relevant. The man must use both income and wealth to meet his maintenance obligations. According to the woman, the man's assets amount to € 1,817,600. In addition, in her opinion there is still power in which the man does not want to give insight.

23. The court of appeal has determined that the man has always worked in and from the Netherlands. The court does not consider that his contract with [the former employer of the man 1] has been extended, given the explanation given to the court by the man at the hearing. This has revealed the following. The man graduated in Utrecht as a civil lawyer, but has always worked in commercial practice as a seller of [software] products ([software]). The man worked successively at [former employer of the man 2], [former employer of the man 3] and [former employer of the man 4]. When the man's job at [former employer of the man 4] was terminated after three years by this employer, he received a severance payment of around € 300,000, which he paid in a B.V. - [the B.V.] - has accommodated. The man subsequently came into contact with a former colleague of the man 1, through a former colleague, for whom he performed similar work on a contract basis as for [the former employer of the man 4]. In this work it was not important where the man lived, since he worked from his laptop. In the opinion of the court, the husband has sufficiently demonstrated with this explanation and in view of the documents submitted by the husband and wife regarding his dismissal with [former husband of the man 1] that [former employer of the husband 1] ended the contract with the man for organizational reasons because the company wanted to focus more on the home market in the United States, while the man was a specialist Asian country.

24. In fact, the man has no income in box 1. The court has requested the man to bring his quarterly turnover tax returns 2019 into question. From this quarterly return it follows that the man as a self-employed entrepreneur does not generate any turnover. The court also saw that the man applied for a job but has not yet found a job. The expectation of the man that he could earn a gross annual income of € 120,000 has therefore not been fulfilled. The court assumes the actual labor income of the man and that is, in the view of the court, nil.

25. The parties argue about the man's income from box 3. The man is of the opinion that the actual return must be taken as the basis. The court understands that the man wants to maintain the capital because it serves as a pension provision. The woman, on the other hand, is of the opinion that a return of 6.4% on € 1,300,000 = € 83,200 per year should be taken into account, less taxation of € 15,000 per year.

26. With regard to the income of the man from box 3, the court considers as follows. The court is of the opinion that the actual return that the man has on his assets should be considered. It follows from the documents (Exhibit 32 to V form dated 31 October 2019) that the man has realized an annual return of € 13,336 (€ 7,262 Van Lansschot Beleggingen and € 6,064 Rabo investments). Now that the actual income from the man's investment portfolio is lower than the tax due on it, the court does not take income from box 3 into account.

27. In view of the objective of the husband's assets, being pension provision, which has not been contradicted by the wife, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, even under Malaysian law, the husband cannot be required to use this wealth for spousal maintenance. The man's choice not to transfer his assets intended for retirement externally but to keep them under his own management does not mean that it is now justified that he should use those assets under Malaysian law. Although, according to the case law put forward by the woman, it is possible to use the assets of the maintenance debtor, however, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal, this cannot be required of the husband in this specific case, since his assets concern later retirement. The mere fact that this capital is kept in-house does not change this.

28. In view of the foregoing, the husband has no capacity to pay spousal maintenance and the contested decision must be set aside to that extent. The court no longer accepts the man's request for limitation or nullification of spousal maintenance.

Redemption amount partner maintenance

29. Under Malaysian law, a lump sum payment can be agreed between the parties on spousal maintenance. In the view of the man, there are no grounds for this in Malaysian law in the present case. To this end he argues:

- the parties have not concluded an agreement about a lump sum payment, the man has only requested this in the alternative;

- the man does not have assets that can be used for a lump sum payment;

- the willingness to pay spousal maintenance is indeed present in the man;

- the spousal maintenance is actually already paid by offsetting.

30. The woman believes that there are grounds for determining a lump sum payment. According to the woman:

- there is agreement between the parties about a lump sum payment;

- serves as a surety payment;

- is there indeed capital available for a lump sum payment?

- the man is simply not prepared to pay a lump sum payment.

4 Reasons of the Decision

31. The court considers as follows. It clearly follows from the party debate that the parties have not reached agreement on any lump sum payments. Furthermore, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that in this specific case the husband's assets should not be used to buy off the spousal maintenance since there is a pension provision. It has not been established that the man is not prepared to pay spousal maintenance. In view of the above, the Court of Appeal finds that under Malaysian law there are no grounds for imposing a lump sum payment.

Repayment of too much partner maintenance received

32. The court is of the opinion that also under Malaysian law the woman has a repayment obligation now that she has received money from the man without any right or title. Since the woman also states in her defense that the incidental appeal under marginal 60 itself states that she has assets in total of € 43,671.00, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the woman should repay the excess partner maintenance received from those monies.

Child support
Jurisdiction and applicable law

33. Now that the man lives in the Netherlands, the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the request for child maintenance. Pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 3 of the Protocol of 23 November 2007, Dutch law applies to the request for child maintenance, now that the case has been brought in the Netherlands where the man has his habitual residence.

Need

34. The minor's need of € 2,595 per month, excluding the school costs of the international school, as determined by the court, is not in dispute on appeal between the parties and is therefore established.

Capacity of the parties

35. The woman has at the hearing her request that the husband not only supplement the annual school costs but also cover the annual costs of the minor's university until he reaches the age of 21, to be determined at withdrawn a maximum of € 20,000 per year. Therefore, this request needs no further discussion.

36. The man requests, on an incidental basis, with the annulment of the contested decision, to set child maintenance at an amount of € 1,000, plus the school costs of the minor under the obligation of the woman to the fullest extent. to obtain a discount on this from her employment with the minor's school (as long as she does not generate income elsewhere).

37. In view of the woman's limited income, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that she cannot be expected to make any contribution to the minor's costs. These costs are therefore fully charged to the income or wealth of the man.

38. Under Dutch law, the man can be expected to intend on his assets in this specific case. Paying child maintenance is a very high priority. The court considers a child maintenance of € 1,000 per month to be paid by the man, in addition to the considerable school costs of € 13,000 per year, already a very heavy financial burden for the man, also in view of the fact that he must pay these costs from his wealth, which wealth is intended for his retirement provision. The court will therefore determine the child maintenance at the aforementioned amount of € 1,000 per month, while maintaining the uncontested starting date of the child maintenance of October 22, 2018, at least the date on which the divorce decision is registered in the registers of civil status.

39. The court sees no reason to impose the obligation of effort requested by the husband on the wife, now that the parties have already made agreements about the payment of the minor's school fees, to which both parties are bound. It already follows from the agreement that the woman must make an effort to obtain the discount on the school fees. The man's request will be rejected.

Repayment of too much child support received

40. With regard to the question of whether the woman should repay the child support received in excess, the court of appeal is based on Dutch law. Insofar as the woman has received too much child support, she does not have to reimburse it as the minor's need exceeds the contribution to be paid by the husband, so that the child contribution already paid should be considered consumed.

Property law settlement of a matrimonial property regime
Jurisdiction and applicable law

41. Now that the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the application for divorce, it also has jurisdiction with regard to the requests pertaining to the property settlement of the marriage.

42. It has neither been alleged nor established that before marriage the parties have designated the law applicable to their matrimonial property regime. Pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Hague Marriage Property Convention of 14 March 1978, Trb. 1988, 130, the matrimonial property regime is governed by the law of Andorra, since the parties apparently have established their first habitual residence after the marriage in Andorra and none of the exceptions referred to in Article 4 (2) of that Convention arise.

The car Honda, type CRV
43. According to the woman, under both Andorran and Malaysian law, she should be granted the exclusive right to use the Honda brand car, whatever car she actually uses. In the alternative, it wishes to have the car attributed to it while settling the value, which it set at € 21,950. The court refers to marginal numbers 146 to 149 of the defense, also incidentally appealing to the woman. She refers to a number of legal opinions.

44. The husband is willing to hand over his car to the wife in the amount of € 23,402. According to him, Andorran law has no right to use the car, at least the legal opions submitted by the woman in this respect are not substantiated by legislation or case law. The man explicitly responds to the legal opinion of 16 January 2018 of a lawyer in Andorra that has been brought to the court by the woman. He also responds to an email message of 14 May 2018 from the same lawyer. In addition, the husband is of the opinion that transport costs have already been taken into account in determining the minor's needs, so the woman's assertion that child maintenance in kind is involved in this regard is not valid.

45. The Court states first of all that the woman at first instance acknowledged that only the man owns the car. On the basis of the legal opinion of 16 January 2018, the court finds that it cannot be established that the woman can derive a right of use of the car from Andorran law. From the opinion it follows that the woman could potentially use the car if she needs the car for the minor. The court is of the opinion that the woman has not shown that this is the case. The Court of Appeal considers its single statement in this regard insufficient. Transport is also possible in Malaysia by public transport. Nor has the woman shown that she cannot purchase a car herself. With regard to child maintenance, the court assumes Dutch law. The needs of the minor also include the costs of his transport. The court is of the opinion that the woman has not shown under Andorrees or under Malaysian law that she has an exclusive right of use with regard to the car, also in view of the reasoned dispute by the man. After all, the court cannot assign the case to the woman, since the car belongs to the man's assets, without being contradicted.

The withdrawn funds

46. ​​The woman acknowledges that without the husband's permission she has withdrawn an amount of € 70,000 from bank accounts in both names in Andorra and Malaysia respectively (and not the amount of € 98,152 net, which she claims to have been to the man must reimburse). According to the woman, only a valid divorce decree under Article 55 of the Andorran Marriage Law terminates the legal regime. Thus, the decision contested only on the date of 3 July 2018, the balances on the joint bank accounts belong exclusively to the man. Before that, parties, including the woman, were free to use the assets. Now that she has withdrawn the amounts of € 70,000 in total before that date, she owes nothing to the man in this respect. The woman does not agree that the husband has unilaterally set off the debt against the partner maintenance to be paid by him. In her opinion, he should still repay the amounts withheld by him to the woman.

In the alternative, the woman requests that the amount to be repaid by her be set at € 70,000, minus the repayments already paid and to determine a repayment obligation of € 350 net per month (statement of defense also containing incidental appeal, marginal 162).

47. According to the husband, the court has rightly ruled that the woman must pay an amount of € 98,152 net to the husband in respect of the funds taken up by her. The balances in the bank accounts in both names belong to Andorra's right to the man, since they are fed with his income. The woman has this without the permission of the man and under Andorrees is entitled to repay the amounts withdrawn to the man. The date of termination of the legal matrimonial property regime does not play a role in this, according to the man. In his defense to the cross-appeal, the man disputes the overview submitted by the woman of the withdrawals that she made with underlying bank statements (Exhibit 48 to the statement of defense also containing cross-appeal) now that he considers these to be incomplete. The husband opposes the alternative repayment requested by the wife in installments of her debt to the husband.

48. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, in the light of the reasoned dispute by the husband, the woman has not or insufficiently substantiated on appeal that she was entitled to withdraw amounts from the bank accounts in both names as she did. It does not follow from the legal opinion of 16 January 2018 submitted by the woman and the e-mail of 14 May 2018 that until 3 July 2018 she was free under Andorrees law on the balances on the bank accounts in both names fed by the man. dispose. In the opinion of the court, the woman has also not substantiated that the total amount of these withdrawals was € 70,000 instead of the amount of € 98,152 that the court took into account. In the opinion of the court, the woman's incidental appeal (marginal numbers 151 to 155) and explanations given at the hearing about the various cash flows do not provide a conclusive picture. The contested decision must therefore be ratified to that extent.

49. Now that the woman's preliminary request for spousal maintenance has been rejected, the woman's objection to the husband's settlement of the spousal maintenance with the debt of € 98,152 needs no further discussion. Furthermore, the court sees no reason for the repayment obligation requested by the woman in installments, partly because she has not included this requested in her original petition or in her improved petition. The court assumes that the parties will reach a reasonable settlement in consultation on this point, now that this concerns a substantial amount.

50. All this leads to the next decision.

5 Decision

The Council:

annuls the contested decision in so far as it concerns:

- the subsistence allowance for women

- the amounts determined by the court and the phasing of the contribution to the costs of care and education of the minor determined by the court

and, in so far re-possessing:

rejects the woman's preliminary request for a living allowance;

sets the contribution to be paid by the man to the woman in the costs of care and upbringing of the minor as of October 22, 2018, at least as of the date on which the divorce decision is registered in the registers of civil status, at € 1,000 , - to be paid monthly in advance for the installments to be published after this date;

declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

provides that the woman may not have to reimburse the husband for any excess contributions towards the care and education costs of the minor;

ratifies the contested decision insofar as it is subject to the court's judgment for the rest;

dismisses on appeal more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. A.N. Labohm, A. Zonneveld and J. Zwagemaker, assisted by mr. T. de Witte-Renkema as registrar, and pronounced in open court on December 18, 2019.