Pronunciation


COURT OF MIDDLE NETHERLANDS
Family law

location Utrecht

case number: C / 16/477525 / FA RK 19-1616

Order of April 16, 2020

in the case of:

[the woman] ,

residing in [place of residence],

hereinafter referred to as the woman,

lawyer mr. M. Koudstaal,

against

[the man] ,

residing in [place of residence],

hereinafter referred to as the man,

lawyer mr. M.M. van Maanen.

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The court previously issued orders between the parties on May 28, 2019 and August 9, 2019. The last order pronounced the divorce between the parties, the division of the care and upbringing duties and the request to determine the primary residence was rejected. The other requests were dealt with.

1.2.
The court subsequently received the following documents:

- the supplementary petition from the woman of 14 February 2020, with annexes

52 to 79;

the man's letter of 17 February 2020, with appendices 38 to 54;

the man's letter of 18 February 2020, with annexes 17 and 39;

the woman's letter of 25 February 2020, with appendix 80.

1.3.
The requests were further discussed at the hearing on February 27, 2020. Parties with their lawyers attended. The lawyers of the parties presented and submitted pleading notes at the hearing. The woman also submitted an inventory of procedural documents.

1.4.
Subsequently, the court received a letter from the woman of March 11, 2020 regarding the issue of household goods and a letter of March 31, 2020 from the husband on the same subject.

2 Facts
2.1.
The parties were separated on [2019].

2.2.
The minor child of the parties is:

- [minor], born on [2015] in [place of birth].

2.3.
The care and upbringing duties with regard to [minor] are divided equally between the parties in the decision of 9 August 2019.

2.4.
Parties have had prenuptial agreements drawn up before marriage. In it they have (among other things) agreed that no community of property will arise through marriage (Article 1 of the prenuptial agreement, HV). The prenuptial agreement also contains a regulation regarding compensation rights, the division of the costs of the household, liability for debts and a regulation regarding the presumption of evidence of ownership of movable property.

2.5.
The man owns the house in [place of residence] at the [address] where the parties have lived together.

2.6.
Parties want the court to make a decision about the financial consequences of the divorce, such as child and partner maintenance, the settlement of the prenuptial agreement and the issue of various goods. The court will further discuss the requests of the parties and their positions in this regard per subject.

2.7.
He withdrew the request from the man regarding the delivery of the Volvo to him, so that it is no longer necessary to decide on this.

3 Reasons of the Decision

Child maintenance 3.1.
Both parties have requested that a contribution towards the costs of care and education of [minor] be established for the other parent. It is important to calculate child maintenance with which parent [minor] is registered, because in principle it is assumed that the parent with whom the child is registered has the so-called residence-transcending costs (such as school fees, clothing and sports contributions). satisfies. In an order of 9 August 2019, the court did not see any reason to change the registration of [minor] in the Key Register of Persons with a man to a woman in connection with the, at the time, unequal care scheme. It has neither been asserted nor established that the parties subsequently made mutual agreements about the registration of [minor]. On the basis of the current distribution of the care duties, the court sees no reason to change this registration again. The woman did not state this enough. This means that the court assumes that the husband will pay all [minor] stay-transcending costs.

Need

3.2.
When calculating child maintenance, we first look at the costs of a child. This is also referred to as the "need" of the child. The court calculates the needs of [minor] at an amount of € 960 per month in 2018. Indexed to 2020, this is € 1,001 per month. The court has calculated this as follows.

3.2.1.
In order to find out what a child costs, the court uses tables developed by the Nibud (Netherlands Institute for Budget Information). It looks at what the parents had to spend when they were together. This means that both the income in the last years of the marriage and the spending pattern in the same period have to be looked at, in order to be able to deduce from this what wealth parties have lived in.

3.2.2.
The court finds that the parties are not far apart with regard to the level of the needs of [minor]. The woman states that the highest table amount in 2018 must be assumed, being an income of at least € 6,000 net per month. The man states that the income was € 5,664 net per month. The court will follow the woman and considers it plausible that the family could also dispose of the difference of € 467 per month in income, given the following.

3.2.3.
The parties agree that the woman's income was at least € 1,675 net per month. They also agree that the man has an income from work of € 2,358 net per month and that he could also debit an additional amount of € 1,500 net from the bank account in the name of Mrs. [aunt] (aunt [aunt] ]). Together this is an income of € 5,533 net per month.

3.2.4.
In addition, the court is of the opinion that when determining the income of the parties at the time of the marriage, account must also be taken of the private withdrawals from the man's company. It is true, as stated by the man, that he did not make any private withdrawals in his company in 2018. In that year, the business capital was nil because all the capital had already been taken out and nothing could be extracted. Furthermore, nothing came into the company in 2018 because the company was dormant. In 2017, however, the man still withdrew a total of € 69,303 gross from his company. As in 3.2.1. although it has already been stated, in determining the need it is not only necessary to look at the last year (2018), but also at the years before, now that these partly determine the wealth in which [minor] was able to live.

3.2.5.
The court also considers that luxury life, as recognized by the man in his defense under marginal 21, is decisive for the calculation of the need. The parties lived in a luxurious home with very expensive contents. This house has only a relatively small mortgage loan of € 220,000. The man also has several Jaguars and some boats. In addition, the woman has contradicted that during the marriage, parties employed various workers for, among other things, the garden and care of [minor]. This also determines the prosperity at the time of the marriage. In view of the above, the exact calculation of the net disposable family income of the parties is difficult, but the court considers it very plausible that this was at least higher than an amount of € 6,000 per month. The court will therefore follow the woman in her position and assume a net family income of at least € 6,000 per month for child support. Subsequently, the court looked at the tables of the Nibud which need fits this income and then arrived at a requirement of currently € 1001 per month.

Carrying capacity

3.3.
When calculating child maintenance, it is then necessary to consider what each of the parents can pay. This is also referred to as the "carrying capacity" of the parents.

Carrying capacity of the woman

3.4.
The court calculates the woman's ability to pay € 500 per month. The court will explain how it got that amount.

3.4.1.
To determine the capacity of a parent, first of all the income of that parent is considered. The woman submitted a salary statement of January 2020, from which it follows that she currently earns € 2,660.40 gross per month. During the marriage, the woman worked two days a week. Since the marriage broke up, she has extended it to three days a week. The court agrees with the man that in the long run she can extend this to four days a week and thus increase her income. However, as long as the husband himself only works 20 hours a week, the court finds that he cannot yet demand this from the woman, especially now that the woman has half of the care and upbringing duties of [minor] and is thereby confiscated. taken by the very laborious cooperation with the man about the distribution of this care scheme. During the hearing it became clear that Safe Home is now also involved in the family and the Child Protection Board is considering applying for a provisional supervision order from this court. These circumstances limit the woman to increase her earning capacity. The court will therefore assume its current income of € 2,260.40 gross per month. In view of this income, taking into account a holiday allowance, retained pension premium and the applicable tax credits, the court calculates the woman's net disposable income at € 2,413 (calculation I).

3.4.2.
Then it must be considered what part of that income can be used to contribute to the costs of [minor]. For this purpose, the court uses the so-called "ability to pay formula" recommended by the Expert Group Alimony. This formula assumes that someone may spend 30% of his net disposable income on housing costs. That comes down to € 724 per month. In addition, a minimum amount of other fixed costs of € 975 per month is taken into account.

An amount of € 714 remains then of the woman's net disposable income. According to the recommendations of the Expert Group Maintenance, 70% of this is available for child maintenance. That amounts to an amount of € 500 per month.

Carrying capacity of the man

3.5.
The court calculates the man's ability to pay at € 6,362 per month. The court will explain how it got that amount.

3.5.1.
To determine the capacity of a parent, first of all the income of that parent is considered. As previously considered, it is not disputed that the man has an income from work of € 38,880 gross per year with Aunt [aunt]. In addition, the man has a very large ability. The issue is whether and to what extent this capacity must be included in determining the man's standing capacity.

3.5.2.
In addition to the house in [residence], which has a WOZ value of € 1,493,000, the man also owns a shares and bond portfolio with a value of almost € 4,000,000 in 2020. The fictitious tax return about this amounts to approximately € 200,000 per year. The court finds it plausible that the actual return will on average be approximately the same. This is usually the case with such high wealth, because (part of it) tends to be invested with greater risk. This assumption has also recently been codified with the introduction of the disc rate in box 3. Furthermore, it appears that the equity and bond portfolio has increased significantly since its acquisition, corresponding to the notional tax return. The man has stated that he cannot dispose of this property because it has been placed under the administration of his parents. The court is of the opinion that, even if the man currently does not actually have this property, the income from this property must be taken into account when determining his ability to pay. The man may be required to turn to his parents to obtain the accrual of the assets under administration or some of that assets, in order to comply with his statutory maintenance obligation. If the parents of the man do not want to cooperate in this, the man can turn to the subdistrict court or the preliminary relief judge. The man has also successfully done this in the past for the mandatory tax assessments in box 3 on this capital. The court has no reason to believe that this will not be successful this time, because it is also about being able to comply with a legal obligation. The man has stated that the purpose of the government is to preserve capital in the man's family. He further argued that the assets placed under administration should be seen as an advance on his inheritance and that the donation involved could still be made tax-free in Belgium. The court has no reason to doubt this, but this provides no basis for judging otherwise. It is clear that the donation was made at the time in the context of estate planning, partly in order to avoid future inheritance tax. The establishment of such a construction may have tax advantages, but in some situations this can also be disadvantageous. The result of the donation is that the relevant equity and bond portfolio of his parents' assets has been transferred to that of the husband. The growth of that portfolio is also on top of his assets. Just like the tax authorities, the maintenance judge therefore takes this capital gain into account. Moreover, the court is of the opinion that fulfilling a maintenance obligation for a minor but also for a former spouse is more important, also in a moral sense, than preserving the family wealth. This means that the court will calculate with a net income from assets of (€ 200,000 - / - 60,000 in tax payable =) € 140,000 per year. If the man does not manage to release this, he can also free up the assets he has in the house by selling the house and moving to a smaller house.

3.5.3.
The court will not take into account a profit from an enterprise now that the man has stopped working in this enterprise. Nor will the court take into account the extra debit card withdrawal from Aunt [Aunt's] bank card. The man has made sufficiently plausible with the letter from Aunt [Aunt] that he no longer has this bank card, at least not as long as the parties litigate about maintenance payments.

3.5.4.
In view of the aforementioned income from labor and capital and taking into account the applicable tax credits, the court calculates the man's net disposable income at € 14,375 (calculation II).

3.5.5.
Then it must be considered what part of that income can be used to contribute to the costs of [minor]. For this purpose, the court uses the so-called "ability to pay formula" recommended by the Expert Group Alimony. This formula assumes that someone may spend 30% of his net disposable income on housing costs. That comes down to € 4,312 per month. In addition, a minimum amount of other fixed costs of € 975 per month is taken into account. An amount of € 9,088 remains for the man's net disposable income. According to the recommendations of the Expert Group Maintenance, 70% of this is available for child maintenance. That amounts to an amount of € 6,362 per month.

Capacity comparison

3.6.
If the parents together have enough capacity to pay all the costs of their child, the judge must calculate who must bear which part of the costs. This is also referred to as the "carrying capacity comparison".

3.6.1.
As calculated above, the man has a carrying capacity of € 6,362 per month and the woman has a carrying capacity of € 500 per month. Together they therefore have a carrying capacity of € 6,862 per month. This is enough to pay all the costs of [minor], which are € 1,001 per month. After comparing everyone's capacity, this means that the man has to wear a part of € 928 per month and the woman a part of € 73 per month.

Care discount

3.7.
Finally, normally the parent who has to pay child maintenance will receive a discount on that maintenance, because that parent already pays part of the costs when the child stays with him / her. This is also referred to as the 'healthcare discount'.

3.7.1.
Pursuant to the Treme Report of the Expert Group on Alimentation Standards, a care discount of up to 35% of the total costs of a child can be used. Even if a parent takes care of a child for half the time, a maximum care discount of € 35% must be charged for this. It is then assumed that the costs that the parent incurs for the child (e.g. for food) during the time the child stays with this parent account for 35% of the total costs of the child. The accommodation costs for the other parent, where the child also stays half the time, are also 35% of the child's costs. The total amount that the parents spend on accommodation costs therefore amounts to 70% of the costs of this child. The remaining 30% of a child's costs are deemed to be spent on cross-curricular costs, which include, for example, school fees and sports dues. As considered in paragraph 3.1, the court assumes that the man pays these costs.

3.7.2.
In addition, since 35% of the costs of [minor] are borne by the man because of the stay of [minor] with the man, in practice the man pays 65% of the total cost of [minor], being € 651. . The woman only pays accommodation costs of 35% of the total costs of [minor], being € 350 per month. In view of the ability-to-pay comparison, the woman only has to contribute € 73 per month to the costs of [minor]. This means that she incurs an amount of € 277 more in costs than she would have to make on the basis of the ability to pay comparison. The man must also contribute on the basis of the ability to pay with an amount of € 928, -, but his costs are only € 651. This difference (928 - / - 651 =) of € 277 is what the woman incurs too much in costs. It is therefore reasonable that the man pays this amount to her. This means that the husband has to pay a contribution of € 277 per month to child support.

Prepayment

3.8.
The court will determine that the man must always pay child maintenance before the first of the month. It concerns a contribution to the costs that will be incurred in that month and then it would be too late if the maintenance is only paid at the end of the month.

Partner maintenance

3.9.
The woman wants the husband to pay her an amount of partner maintenance of € 5,546 net per month. The man disagrees and says he cannot pay that amount.

3.10.
When determining the amount of spousal maintenance, the court must first look at what the woman needs for her subsistence, also in view of the prosperity that the parties had during the marriage (the so-called 'marriage-related need'). The court must then assess to what extent the woman can reasonably meet that need herself (the so-called 'neediness'). Finally, it is necessary to consider what the man can pay for this (the so-called "carrying capacity").

Marriage related need

3.11.
Parties disagree on the level of the marriage-related need. The court finds that the man at the hearing is in line with the so-called Court standard, so that the parties agree on this. For the purposes of this standard, the court must determine the net family income of the parties at the time of the marriage.

3.12.
The woman has argued in support of her need that not only should the joint family income at the time of the marriage be considered, but also the spending pattern of parties during that period. To this end, she argues that account must be taken of the husband's income from labor and wealth, profits from business in 2017 and the additional withdrawals of the aunt [aunt] 's debit card. The woman submitted various overviews showing the parties' spending pattern of at least € 12,000 net per month. The man disputes the above with the exception of his income from work and the debit card withdrawal of € 1,500 per month. He states that the family income in total

€ 5,664 net per month.

3.13.
The court agrees with the woman that in determining the need of the woman, not only the income earned by parties on paper should be considered, but also the expenditure pattern, because this gives an indication of what parties actually have available in money. had. In view of the luxurious life in which the parties lived, as mentioned above in 3.2.5, the court is of the opinion that the income mentioned by the woman is more in line with reality than the income that the man has mentioned. In the absence of exact figures, the court will therefore reasonably set the family income at an amount of € 10,000 net per month. The costs of [minor] in 2018 of € 960 must be deducted from this, because parties could not use that part of the family income for their own expenses. In that case, an amount of € 9,040 remained for their own expenses. According to the Court standard, the marriage-related need then amounts to 60% of that amount, taking into account the fact that life for a single person is more expensive than for cohabitants. The marriage-related need of the woman therefore amounts to € 5,424 net per month.

Additional need (neediness)

3.14.
As stated in paragraph 3.4.1. the woman's net disposable income is calculated at € 2,413 per month. This is lower than her marriage-related need, so that she cannot provide for it herself and needs a contribution from the husband. As has already been considered in child maintenance, the court ignores the husband's position that the woman should now increase her earning capacity.

Taking into account the tax to be paid and the contribution for the health insurance act (ZVW), the court calculates - with reference to the enclosed calculation (calculation III) - that the woman needs an additional contribution of € 5,781 gross per man. month to fully meet the marriage-related need.

Carrying capacity of the man

3.15.
To see what contribution the man can make, the court must first look at the income of the man. The court takes into account the same principles as when calculating the husband's income in child maintenance. With reference to calculation II, the court calculates the man's net disposable income for spousal maintenance at € 14,349 per month.

3.16.
The man must then pay his fixed expenses from that income. The court will then discuss the positions of the parties by order.

3.16.1.
First of all, the court takes into account an amount equal to the social assistance standard for a single person, namely € 1,052 per month. Of this amount, the man is expected to pay, among other things, his groceries and costs of gas, water and electricity.

3.16.2.
With regard to housing costs, the court takes into account a mortgage burden of € 422 per month, the high notional rental value, the Hillen Act and € 95 per month in other owner's costs. As is customary with maintenance calculations, the court will deduct an amount equal to the average basic rent of € 230 per month from its housing costs. The social assistance standard of € 1,052 per month already includes an amount in housing costs of € 230 per month, otherwise there would be a double counting of housing costs.

3.16.3.
The court also takes into account an amount of premium for health insurance of € 125 per month. The court deducts an amount of € 33 per month from the man's medical expenses. The social assistance standard includes all that amount of health care costs, otherwise there would be a double counting of health care costs.

3.16.4.
The court does not take into account the insurance costs of the also household goods that the man has received from his parents. The man's maintenance obligation towards his former spouse outweighs this insurance. In addition, the social assistance standard already includes an amount of contents insurance. Aunt [aunt] 's household effects are subject to compulsory contributions for the documents that are her property, even though she has given them to the husband on loan.

3.16.5.
Neither is account taken of the man's debts to Aunt [aunt], since the documents show that the man's family has a tradition of paying off such debts through gifts.

3.17.
Based on the aforementioned income and the aforementioned expenses and taking into account the actual share of the man in the costs of [minor] as calculated above at (651 + 277 =) € 928, the court calculates the capacity of the man on an amount of € 7,381 gross per month. The court refers to the calculation attached to this decision (calculation II).

3.18.
In view of what has been considered above, the court is of the opinion that the man can be considered to fully meet the needs of the woman. The court will therefore determine that the man with an amount of € 5,781 gross per month must contribute to the cost of living of the woman.

Woman's right to reimbursement

3.19.
The woman states that she invested an amount of € 14,352.16 from the private property in the husband's home. In addition, she lent a total of € 83,993.32 to the man. The woman requests the court to determine that the husband is due to repay these amounts to her, as well as her share of the increase in the value of the house.

- Investment in the home At the hearing, the husband acknowledged that the woman invested an amount of € 14,352.16 in his home on 28 June 2015, as a result of which she has a nominal right of reprieve under Article 7 HV. The court will therefore grant the woman's request in this regard. The court will reject the woman's request regarding the increase in value in the home, because the marriage conditions explicitly show that this is a nominal right to compensation, plus the statutory interest from the start of the claim. The woman has not explicitly claimed the statutory interest, but the court considers it to be attributable, since that interest can be regarded as a replacement for the share of the increase in value that has been claimed. The statutory interest has started to run from the moment the claim arose, which is June 28, 2015. The court considers it reasonable to start from the compound interest since the prenuptial agreement does not state anything about this.

- Loan to the man The court finds that the woman's request with regard to the loan to the man falls under Article 827 paragraph 1 sub f of the Legal Claim. The court can only make such ancillary provision in these divorce proceedings if there is sufficient coherence with the divorce petition and it can not be expected that its handling will lead to unnecessary delay of the proceedings. The court is of the opinion that this is the case, unlike the man. It has been established between the parties that the woman lent the man money at various times, partly also for the purchase of goods. Amounts have been settled on these amounts at different times, so that it is difficult for the court, as was also the case for the parties, to reconstruct the final amount of the amount owed by the man to the woman. At the hearing it was established that the parties set the amount of the loan on 13 November 2018 in writing, in view of the impending end of their marriage, after calculations, at an amount of € 78,758.50. The man initially denied that it was his signature under the statement of 13 November 2018 submitted by the woman as Exhibit 66. However, at the hearing he acknowledged that the signature is his, although he now states that he is under pressure of the woman. Partly in view of the contradiction in the statements of the man, the court does not consider intolerable pressure to be plausible. It is also not apparent from anything, other than that the man claims. The court will therefore take the amount of € 78,758.50 mentioned on the statement as the starting point.

3.22.
The man then states that he has repaid an amount of € 6,483 and an amount of € 2,241.50 on this loan. The woman disputed this by referring to her overview submitted as Exhibit 66. The court is of the opinion that the woman has sufficiently demonstrated that the aforementioned amounts have already been discounted in the balance of € 78,758. Nor does the man claim that he made any repayments after the aforementioned settlement agreement. Nor does this follow implicitly from his statements. The man also stated that he gave two watches to the woman worth a total of € 4,135, which should be seen as repayment on the loan. The woman has also contested this and the court also appears strange. No further evidence has been offered by the man of his claim that he gave the woman two watches for redemption, so that the court sees no reason to admit him to provide evidence. In this procedure, the issue of the two watches to the woman to pay off the debt has not been established. The court will therefore not take this into account and will award the claim of the woman in the amount of € 78,758.50. For the rest, the court will reject the woman's claim, since the parties have set the amount of the loan with the deed of 13 November 2018, which is in the nature of a settlement agreement, at an amount of € 78,758.50. Even if the principal amount would have been more, the woman is therefore no longer free to claim this excess from the man. Insofar as the money has been lent to the man for the purchase of goods, the amounts made available for this purpose can be regarded as the payment by the woman of a debt of the man, namely the purchase price owed to a third party. Strictly speaking, the loan therefore concerns, at least in part, a compensation right on which statutory interest is due at the time of its arising in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the prenuptial agreement. However, this has not been claimed by the woman, not even in other terms and, moreover, cannot be calculated, so that the court will only allocate the principal.

Claims of the man 3.23. The husband claims to have a claim on the wife of a total of € 16,362.47. This claim includes the childcare allowance received by the woman for the years 2016 to 2019. The husband thinks that the childcare allowance is due to him because he has paid the childcare costs of recent years. Furthermore, the claim consists of various costs associated with the Volvo that the man has paid, but for which the man considers the woman to be a compulsory contributor because she drove his Volvo. Finally, the claim consists of a post of € 3,000, in which the man has placed the words “Holiday restitution”.

3.24.
The court is of the opinion that the costs of childcare at the time of the marriage up to and including December 2019 (being the date of divorce) can be regarded as household costs. The prenuptial agreement stipulates that, insofar as the income from the parties' labor is not sufficient for this, which seems to be the case here, these costs will be charged to everyone's assets in proportion to their status as of 1 January of the relevant calendar year. Because the man is by far the most wealthy party, the costs of the household, including the childcare costs, should therefore be borne by his assets. Naturally, the compensation received for childcare should be deducted from this. However, the woman has contradicted that she has used the childcare allowance for other costs of the joint household and this does not appear implausible to the court given the spending pattern of the parties. Those other costs should also be charged to the man's assets. In the opinion of the court, it has therefore not been established with this defense that the woman was unjustly enriched at the expense of the husband with the receipt of the childcare allowance, as stated by the husband. The woman has further stated without being contradicted that she received the childcare allowance until the moment that [minor] went to school, so only until the beginning of March 2019. This is only a few months after the cohabitation and thus also several months after the end of the joint household. If and insofar as the woman has received the allowances after March 2019, the Tax and Customs Administration has a claim for reimbursement on the woman and she has not been enriched on that basis either. For the interim period, i.e. after the termination of the cohabitation and in March 2019, the woman actually had costs for [minor] when receiving the supplement, and no provisional provisions were yet in progress at that time. There is therefore also unjust enrichment over that period. It has not been established that the man's claim can be based on any other legal basis. In view of the above, the court will reject the man's request in this regard.
3.25.
Regarding the costs associated with the Volvo, the court finds that now that the man has undisputedly claimed that the Volvo is his property, it is not clear why he is not obliged to pay insurance and road tax. The court does consider the woman liable for the damage to the car in the amount of € 1,465.95 and the fines received in the amount of € 79 in total, because these costs were incurred while the woman was still using the car, while there was no longer a joint household. These car costs can therefore no longer be regarded as costs of the joint household, but must be borne by the woman because she caused these costs. The court will grant the man's request to that extent.

3.26.
Insofar as the man's claim consists of the item “Holiday restitution”, the court will reject that claim as insufficiently substantiated.

Dismissal of mortgage loan liability 3.27. The woman has requested the court to convince the man to release the woman from her joint and several liability for the mortgage loans that the man took out to finance the home. The man has promised at the hearing that he will consult with the bank about this as soon as possible. This request can be upheld as uncontested and based on the law, in the sense that the court will give the man the opportunity to effect the dismissal of the woman from the joint and several liability of the mortgage loan before 9 July 2020.

Issue of the goods 3.28. Both parties have requested the delivery of various household goods in accordance with the overviews they have submitted. At the meeting on March 11, 2020 they made agreements about to whom which household goods belong. In doing so, they agreed that they would hand over the items in mutual consultation and would inform the court in more detail about the remaining points of dispute. By letter of 11 March 2020, the woman submitted a new overview of the items that she did not receive in accordance with the agreements at the hearing. She requests the court to convict the man to hand over the items mentioned on the list to her. By letter of March 31, 2020, the man reported to the court that he searched again in response to the woman's letter and found some items that the woman wanted to find and that she had also handed them over to her. He states that he simply does not (any longer) own a number of other items on the woman's list. Furthermore, the man has also made a list of goods that he has not yet received from the woman. Based on these lists, the court rules as follows. Each of the parties must transfer to the other party those goods that are the property of the other party insofar as they are (still) in his or her possession. To that extent, the court will award the claims.

Periodic penalty payment 3.29. The parties have demanded periodic penalty payments on requests for the issue of the goods. The court sees no reason to allocate the claimed periodic penalty payments.

Litigation costs

3.30.
Parties are former spouses. The court will therefore compensate the legal costs in the sense that each party bears its own costs.

4 Decision
The court:

4.1.
stipulates that, as of today, the man must pay an amount of € 277 per month to the woman, as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing of [minor], with the stipulation that the man will always receive this maintenance before the first of the month has to pay;

4.2.
determines the amount that the man will provide to the woman as of today as a contribution to the cost of his living further at € 5,781 per month, each time to be paid in advance;

4.3.
orders the man to pay the woman an amount of € 14,352.16, relating to the investment in the home, plus statutory interest from 28 June 2015 until the day of full payment.

4.4.
orders the husband to pay the woman an amount of € 78,758.50 to repay a loan to the man;

4.5.
orders the woman to pay the man an amount of € 1,544.95 as compensation for traffic fines she has driven and damage to the Volvo she has incurred;

4.6.
condemns the husband to execute the woman's resignation from the joint and several liability of the mortgage loan to finance the home before 9 July 2020;

4.7.
condemns each of the parties to hand over to the other party those items owned by the other party, insofar as he or she still has those goods in sight;

4.8.
declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

4.9.
stipulates that both parties must pay their own legal costs;

4.10.
otherwise rejects the parties' requests.

This decision was made by M.A.A.T. Engber's (children's) judge, in the presence of mr. D.A. van Rootselaar as Registrar and pronounced in public on April 16, 2020.

To the extent that a final decision has been made, an appeal may be lodged with the court of appeal in Arnhem-Leeuwarden through the intervention of a lawyer. The requesting party and interested parties to appear must file the appeal within three months of the date of the decision. Other interested parties must bring the appeal within three months of the notification of this order or of its becoming known to them in any other way.