Pronunciation


COURT OF THE HAGUE
Civil Law Department

Case number: 200.249.020 / 01

Case number, court: C / 09/538591 / HA ZA 17-912

judgment of March 3, 2020
on

[the woman] ,
residing in [place of residence],

appellant, who is also occasionally intimidated,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer: mr. M.Y. van der Bijl in The Hague,

against

[the man]
residing in [place of residence],

intimidated, also incidental appellant,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer: mr. K. Moene in The Hague.

1 Proceedings

By writ of October 17, 2018, the woman appealed against a judgment of 25 July 2018 between the parties, which was referred to by the court in The Hague, hereinafter: the contested judgment.

A judgment of the parties was ordered by judgment of 11 December 2018. The submission after submission took place on January 11, 2019. An official report has been made of the proceedings, whereby the case was referred to the role of February 26, 2019 for taking a statement of appeal.

In a statement of appeal, the woman raised five complaints.

In his response to productions, the man contested the grievances and also occasionally brought an appeal.

The woman responded to this in a response in an incidental appeal.

The man has requested a judgment without production of the case file.

The woman has taken a deed.

The man has taken an answer.

The woman first submitted part of the case file and then submitted the full case file with the request to deliver a judgment.

2 Facts
1. The facts established by the court in the judgment of 25 July 2018 are not in dispute. The court will also assume this.

2. By that judgment, the court ordered the manner in which the dissolved marriage community of the parties is distributed.

3. The woman claims that the court should be allowed to partially set aside the contested judgment and to do the following again:

declare the man inadmissible in his claims concerning the alleged amounts from the safe, the alleged cash in the house and the debts he has put in with [name one], [name two], [name three], [name four] and [name five], or to reject these claims;

order the man to pay the costs in both instances.

4. The husband concludes that the Court of Appeal should, by judgment, declare the appeal brought by the woman to be inadmissible or unfounded, to the extent feasible in stock.

3 Appeal
In an incidental appeal, the man claims to annul the contested judgment insofar as it concerns the decision regarding the claim against [name six] (the court understands: [name six]) and for the rest to maintain the judgment, as well as the claim to condemn the man to pay the costs of both proceedings.

5. The woman objects to the incidental appeal of the husband and concludes that the court should be allowed to declare the husband inadmissible in his cross-appeal or to dismiss the appeal.

6. The court sees no reason to supplement the facts as the woman apparently intends to introduce her statement of grievances. The husband has contested the statement made therein and, moreover, the statements of the wife - insofar as relevant here - are discussed in the assessment of the grievances.

4 Scope of Dispute
7. In the context of the division of the dissolved marriage community, there are disputes between the parties with regard to:

the contents of the safe at the ABN AMRO bank for an amount of € 85,000 and an amount of $ 4,000 in cash

b. £ 1,200 cash in the home

c. the debts to [name two] (€ 1,200) and [name three] (€ 7,000) due to advances received by the man, with which he would purchase drinks for their parties / parties

d. the debt to [name four] of € 9,500 for the purchase of the Volkswagen Polo

e. the debt to [name five] of € 35,000

f. the claim on [name six] of € 20,000.

Ad a: the contents of the safe at the ABN AMRO bank

8. The woman disagrees with the judgment of the court that on April 24, 2015, an amount of € 85,000 and an amount of $ 4,000 in cash were in the safe rented by parties at the ABN AMRO bank and that on the reference date of 22 September 2015 those sums of money still belonged to the matrimonial community. According to her, she was not with the man in the safe on that first date and the man staged some things. In addition, no money of this size has ever been present in the safe.

9. The man states that on 24 April 2015 he and the woman visited the vault of parties at the ABN AMRO bank. According to him, the safe included the amount of € 85,000 and the amount of $ 4,000 in cash. In the proceedings, he submitted photos of himself sitting behind a table, with piles of banknotes on it. The table also shows a handwritten note dated 24 April 2015, with his signature on which the balance of those cash is stated. According to the man, the photos in question were taken by the woman. As a reason for the visit to the safe, the man stated that parties wanted to take British pounds from the safe to go shopping in London for a niece's wedding. According to the man, the photos were taken to inventory the contents of the safe because parties wanted to have that content insured.

5 Reasons of the Decision
10. The court puts the following first. Even if the photos submitted by the man are authentic, the court can still not determine which amounts are exactly on the table, let alone whether these amounts were still present on the September 22, 2015 reference date.

11. It is further established between the parties that the note shown in the photos is written in the man's handwriting. The note undisputed says:

4/24/15 Today [the woman] + [the man] agree

Euro € 85,000

Dollar $ 4,000

Excluding the jewelry & other

This is followed by the man's signature.

In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the above-mentioned note does not provide any definitive information about the amounts either. After all, in view of the parties' agreement on the note, it would have been obvious that the woman, who according to the man was also present, had signed the note for approval, which is not the case. In addition, it is striking that on the copy "Registration counter visit" of the ABN AMRO submitted by the man as Exhibit 11 in the first instance, only the man's signature was placed on the date of 24 April 2015 and not that of the woman.

12. It is not disputed between the parties that the woman visited the safe on July 6, 2015 and on July 15, 2015. This has also been noted on the aforementioned copy 'Registration of counter visit' from the bank. The man was on custody on those dates. According to the man, the woman took a lot of cash from the safe during those visits, which is disputed by the woman. At first instance, she stated that at that time she only secured the jewelry of the parties and their children from the safe, in order to be able to distribute it fairly between the parties. According to her, there was no question of large amounts of cash.

13. In view of the aforementioned facts and circumstances, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that in the light of the motivated dispute by the woman, the husband has not or has insufficiently demonstrated that on April 24, 2015, an amount of € 85,000 and an amount of $ 4,000 were present in cash in the safe, which were still present on September 22, 2015 and therefore belonged to the dissolved marriage community to be divided. The contested judgment is therefore to be set aside to the extent that it applies to the division of the dissolved marriage community of the parties. For the aforementioned reasons, an appeal by the husband to prejudice of the community by the wife as referred to in Section 1: 164 BW cannot succeed either.

Ad b: the amount of £ 1,200 in cash in the home

14. The woman also disagrees with the court's judgment that on September 22, 2015, an amount of £ 1,200 in cash was found in the parties' homes to be involved in the distribution. She contradicts the man's claim that this amount would be left over from the cash pounds (the woman mistakenly speaks of dollars, the court understands that she means pounds) that the parties had taken to London on their April 2015 shopping trip. According to the woman, the single statement apparently made by the man on this subject, which was only signed by his relatives two years after the trip to London (Exhibit 9 to the introductory subpoena), cannot be regarded as convincing evidence of his allegations.

15. The man is of the opinion that with the statement he has submitted he has demonstrated that the parties still had £ 1,200 in cash left after their trip to London in April 2015. The statement is clear and does not raise any question marks. According to the man, however, the position of the woman is inwardly contradictory and therefore implausible. The man offers on appeal the evidence in pounds sterling of those who signed the statement on January 25, 2017 and of himself.

16. As the court understands, the man offers to prove that after their trip to London, parties had £ 1,200 left of the pounds they claimed he had collected from the safe on April 24, 2015. However, the point is whether the aforementioned cash amount was present in the house on the reference date of 22 September 2015, in which case it would belong to the marriage community of the parties to be divided. Now that the offer of evidence of the man on appeal does not see this, the court will pass this offer of evidence as irrelevant.

17. It follows from the above that the man has not demonstrated that on the reference date an amount of £ 1,200 belonged to the matrimonial community of the parties. The court will therefore set aside the contested judgment to that extent.

Ad c: the debts to [name two] (€ 1,200) and [name three] (€ 7,000) for advances received by the man, with which he would purchase drinks for their parties / parties

18. The court finds that, in the context of the aforementioned debts, although the woman also claims to declare the man inadmissible in his claim concerning the debt he has committed by [name one] or to reject this claim, has not grieved at all against the judgment of the court that parties that bear debt to [name one] of € 1,250 each must bear half. The debt to [name one] is therefore not before the court.

19. The court agrees with what the court considered under 4.43 and 4.44 of the contested judgment on the man's beverage trade for family and acquaintances and the manner in which the drink was financed - namely in advance by the customers. On appeal, the woman did not present any facts or circumstances that would lead to a different judgment. She has not, or insufficiently substantiated, that she would know through accidentally received conversations of the man with third parties that the man would always declare afterwards in connection with his beverage trade.

20. The Court of Appeal therefore assumes that [name two] has given an amount of € 1,200 and [name three] an amount of € 7,000 to the man to buy spirits for their parties. According to the man's statement, the drink could not be ordered because he had been detained at the time. On the basis of this, in the opinion of the court, the aforementioned funds have not fallen into the estate, since they have not been acquired for consideration, for no consideration, or under transfer. The man kept the funds for another person. The aforementioned monies therefore play no role in the context of the distribution. The contested judgment should be set aside to that extent. The court ignores the man's offer of evidence, now that it is irrelevant.

Ad d: the debt to [name four] of € 9,500 for the purchase of the Volkswagen Polo

21. It is established that on 22 June 2015 the man concluded a written agreement with Mr [name four] and Ms [name third] regarding the purchase of a Volkswagen Polo for the price of € 9,500. The court followed the man's claim that he owed the agreed purchase price and ruled that there was a community debt to be borne by both parties, implicitly assuming that the debt still existed on the September 22, 2015 .

22. The woman disagrees with that decision. According to her, the car was indeed paid in cash at the time. At that time, the parties still had the means to do so. It refers in support of the text of the aforementioned agreement submitted by both parties at first instance (for its part submitted as Exhibit 10 at first instance). In addition, it is surprising to the woman that [name four] - an acquaintance of the man, which is not disputed by him - seems to have forgotten the (alleged) claim for years, but at the time of the proceedings at first instance about its existence discards.

23. The man defends and repeats his statements at first instance with reference to the message and the letters - which he submitted as Exhibit 15 at the preliminary summons - which he says originate from [name four].

24. The court considers as follows. There is no dispute between the parties that the (alleged) debt to [name four] concerns a community debt. If the debt was still outstanding as of September 22, 2015, both parties - half of each - are obliged to pay this debt. However, the court cannot determine whether this is the case, now that the creditor [name four] is not a party to the present distribution case. The contested judgment should therefore be set aside to that extent. The court ignores the man's offer of evidence, now that it is irrelevant.

Ad e: the debt to [name five] of € 35,000

25. The court has ruled that it must be assumed that a man's debt of € 35,000 to [name five] (born on May 13, 1972) still existed on the reference date, and has included it in the distribution.

26. The woman appeals to the view that on the side of the man there is no convincing evidence of an existing loan from [name five], if it has ever existed, which she disputes. It points out that the parties had substantial capital in 2010, which meant that the necessity for taking out this loan with a high interest rate of 6.5% per annum was completely absent at the time. In addition, it is unlikely that [name five] - who is undoubtedly an acquaintance of the man - did not claim fulfillment of the agreement for years, but would remember his claim at the time of the divorce of the parties.

27. According to the assertions of the man at first instance, the [name five] living in Suriname has the amount of the loan of € 35,000, - which was intended for a renovation of the parties' marital home - during their stay due to holidays in Suriname handed over to the parties in cash. In a comparative statement of 20 March 2018, the man stated that by arrangement the full amount could be refunded in one go. According to him, it was never redeemed because he was detained at the time. On appeal, the man again refers to the loan agreement of 15 July 2010 submitted by him as Exhibit 16a to the preliminary summons, with the various written statements.

28. The court considers as follows. If the parties had a debt of € 35,000 to [name five] as of September 22, 2015, they are both - half of each - liable for this community debt. However, the court cannot determine whether this is the case now that the creditor [name five] is not a party to the present distribution case. The contested judgment should therefore be set aside to that extent. The court ignores the man's offer of evidence, now that it is irrelevant.

Re f: the claim on [name six] of € 20,000.

29. The court has ruled that on the reference date 22 September 2015, the dissolved marriage community of the parties belonged to a claim of € 20,000 against [name six], to which both parties, each half, are entitled.

30. The husband acknowledges the existence of the woman's loan agreement of 23 February 2015, concluded between and signed by his cousin [name six] and himself, but appeals to the view that this agreement has already been dissolved on February 27, 2015. As production 14, the man submits a statement dated 20 November 2018 from [name six], in which he states, among other things, that according to oral agreement the agreement could be dissolved within a reflection period of up to five days without further consequences, of which option he has used made.

31. The wife has substantiated disputes about the statements of the husband. She points out that the man at first instance submitted a dated statement of [name six], which served as evidence regarding the existence of a termination agreement: that statement was earlier than the agreement, so that it could not relate to it according to the court. Therefore, the new statement of [name six] submitted on appeal should not be valued. The woman denies the existence of the written termination agreement stated by the husband's cousin, let alone that she was present when it was signed.

32. The court is of the opinion that the woman has sufficiently substantiated that the aforementioned claim on the reference date belonged to the dissolved marriage community of the parties to be divided. It is undisputed that the man at first instance presented a time-honored and therefore also implausible statement by [name six], which was rightly left aside by the court. It is not clear why significance should be attached to the statement of 20 November 2018. The man has not made any evidence in this regard either.

33. All of this entails that the contested judgment in respect of the loan claim against [name six] must be upheld.

Litigation costs
34. In view of the family law nature of the present case, the Court will compensate the legal costs between the parties in the sense that each party bears its own costs. For the same reason, the court will uphold the compensation for the costs of the proceedings at first instance. The woman's claim to the contrary will be dismissed.

35. The decision is therefore made as follows.

6 Decision
The Council:

quashes the contested judgment in so far as it concerns:

- marginal 5.27

- marginal 5.28, with the exception of the debt to [name one] of € 1,250.

and, to the extent that it is again conclusive:

declares the man's preliminary claims in this regard:

the contents of the safe at the ABN AMRO bank for an amount of € 85,000 and an amount of $ 4,000 in cash

b. £ 1,200 cash in the home

c. the debts to [name two] of € 1,200 and to [name three] of € 7,000

d. the debt to [name four] of € 9,500

e. the debt to [name five] of € 35,000

still finished;

ratifies the contested judgment in so far as subject to the judgment of the court for the rest;

compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings in that each party bears its own costs;

dismisses the appeal more or less advanced.

This judgment was given by mrs. A.N. Labohm, P.B. Kamminga and A.E. Sutorius-van Hees and was pronounced in open court on March 3, 2020 in the presence of the Registrar.