Pronunciation


18/3135 PW
Central Board of Appeal

Multiple room

Date of judgment: March 31, 2020

Judgment on appeal against the decision of the court of Noord-Holland of 26 April 2018, 17/3639 (attacked judgment)

Parties:

[appellant] in [place of residence] (appellant)

the mayor and councilors of Langedijk (college)

1 Proceedings

Mr M. Hoefs, lawyer, has lodged an appeal on behalf of the appellant.

The College has lodged a statement of defense.

The investigation during the hearing was joined to case 18/3147 PW on July 16, 2019. The appellant has appeared, assisted by mr. Hoefs. The college was represented by R.J. Boes. In case 18/3147 PW a separate decision is being made today.

2 Facts
1. The Council assumes the following facts and circumstances relevant to this case.

1.1.
After 16 September 2016, the appellant, her then husband X and three children were registered at the benefit address in the Personal Records Database after their move from residence A to the benefit address in residence B. X deregistered there on September 24, 2016 and registered at the address of his mother in residence C. On December 8, 2016, the order of the divorce pronounced between appellant and X was registered in the registers of civil status.

1.2.
By decision of 14 October 2016, the Commission granted assistance under the Participation Act (PW) according to the norm for married couples on a request to that effect to appellant and X with effect from 16 August 2016. In that same decision, as of September 22, 2016, the Board granted appellant assistance according to the standard for a single parent.

1.3.
Following an anonymous report on 8 November 2016 that the appellant would be living with X again, the Social Investigation Stop has launched an investigation into the legality of the assistance provided to the appellant. During this investigation, anonymous reports of the same purport were received on November 10, 2016 and January 21, 2017. The investigation included consulting Suwinet, requesting data from municipality C, home visits on November 10, 2016 and February 8, 2017. home at the payment address, observations near the payment address in the period from 6 January 2017 to 8 February 2017, research on the internet, a neighborhood survey and an appellant's hearing on 8 February 2017. The results of the survey are set out in reports of various data.

1.4.
The investigation results prompted the Commission by decision of 8 February 2017, after objection maintained by decision of 29 June 2017, to terminate the appellant's assistance with effect from 8 February 2017 on the ground that the appellant violated her obligation to provide information by not reporting that she ran a joint household with X at the benefit address. The appellant was therefore not entitled to assistance as a single parent.

2. In the attacked judgment, the court declared the appeal against the contested decision to be well-founded, annulled that decision, determined that the legal consequences of that annulled decision would be maintained and ordered the Board to pay damages to the appellant up to an amount of € 200, - and the application for compensation for the rest was rejected. In summary, the court considered that there was no reasonable ground for the home visit on November 10, 2016, so that there is grounds for compensation, that the findings of the sightings should be disregarded from January 6, 2017, but that the Commission found the findings from 31 January 2017 in the evening was allowed to participate in his decision-making and that for the home visit on 8 February 2017 there was reasonable grounds and informed consent was also available. The court concluded that the Municipal Executive rightly terminated the assistance as of February 8, 2017 on the grounds that X had his principal residence with the appellant and that there was therefore a joint household.

3 Appeal

3. On appeal, the appellant opposed the attacked judgment on the grounds to be discussed below, insofar as the court has upheld the legal consequences of the annulled contested decision and the request for compensation for the home visit on 8 February 2017 and the request has rejected statutory interest.

4 Reasons of the Decision

4. The Council makes the following assessment.

4.1.
The decision to terminate assistance is a decision that is burdensome for the person concerned, whereby it is up to the assisting body to acquire the necessary knowledge about the relevant facts. This means that the burden of demonstrating that the conditions for termination are fulfilled in principle rests with the assisting body.

4.2.
Pursuant to Article 3, second paragraph, preamble and under a, of the PW, insofar as relevant here, the married person or spouse is also considered to be the unmarried person who runs a joint household with another person. Pursuant to Article 3, fourth paragraph, of the PW, a joint household is in any case deemed to be present if the interested parties have their main residence in the same house and they have been married to each other or in the period of two years prior to the application for assistance for the provision of assistance if married persons are regarded.

4.3.
Since it is established that appellant and X were married to each other, the answer to the question whether there was a joint household on 8 February 2017 determines whether appellant and X had their main residence in the same house.

4.4.
The main residence of a data subject is located where the center of gravity of his personal life is located. This should be determined on the basis of concrete facts and circumstances.

"Forbidden fruits" 4.5. The appellant has argued that the information obtained from municipality A is inextricably linked to the previous investigation findings deemed unlawful by the court and that the information obtained from that municipality is therefore so-called prohibited fruits. Without those illegal investigation findings, that data would not have been requested. For that reason, the data from municipality C should not be taken into account.

4.5.1.
This appeal ground is unsuccessful. Pursuant to Article 53a of the PW, the Commission is authorized to investigate the correctness and completeness of the information provided and, if necessary, other information that is necessary for the provision or continuation of the assistance. In view of this, it is not clear that the Municipal Executive was not allowed to institute an investigation into the living situation at the benefit address at any time. In addition, an enforcement officer on January 27, 2017, when the college had already received several anonymous reports about X's stay with the appellant and had conducted an internet investigation, after consulting Suwinet, saw that X was registered as emigrated from municipality C. Obtaining information at municipality C was therefore a logical next step.

4.6.
The objection that even the observations from 31 January 2017 should not be the basis of the contested decision in the evening, because these observations were so interwoven with the unlawful home visit of 10 November 2016 that these must also be classified as forbidden fruit, also fails .

4.6.1.
Apart from the findings of the unlawful home visit of 10 November 2016, the College had, based on the anonymous reports about X's stay with the appellant, the results of the internet investigation carried out on 18 January and 25 January 2017 and the information that the College had January 31, 2017 had received sufficient reason from municipality C to further investigate the right to assistance of appellant by means of targeted observations. After all, the internet investigation had shown, among other things, that the payment address was stated at X's company. The information from municipality C also meant that X's mother, at whose address he was registered, had stated that the appellant was not with her, but somewhere lived differently and that a neighbor of her had also stated that X did not live at her address, after which the Municipal Executive subsequently deregistered X from that address on 26 January 2017.

Sightings as of January 31, 2017

4.6.2.
The appellant has further argued that the observations were based on systematic observations, for which Article 53a of the PW does not form an attributable basis and which must be based on an order from the public prosecutor.

4.6.3.
Even if the assessment of this professional ground must be based on the whole of observations from 6 January 2017, as the appellant has argued, this professional ground will not be successful. In the period from January 6 to February 8, observations took place on 24 days, of which several observations took place on 13 days (at different times, spread over the day). The observations were made from the public road and without technical aids. The facts established during the observations mainly concern the presence of X's [car] - with or without fogged or frozen windows - at the appellant's home, whether or not the car feels cold or warm and / or the exhaust, whether or not the light is on or whether the televisions are switched on in the house and the presence of X himself and the appellant at the house or in the car. The observations have not provided the college with a more or less complete picture of certain aspects of the appellant's private life.

4.6.4.
It is established that the observations from 31 January 2017 in the evening violate the right to respect for the private life of the appellant, as protected under

Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR). The investigative powers referred to in Article 53a of the PW are, in view of 4.6.3, in this case an adequate legal basis within the meaning of Article 8 (2) of the ECHR. In this case, the Municipal Executive was allowed to use the investigation and control instrument for observations under Article 53a of the PW, because in the case of appellant no less burdensome investigation tool was available. The grounds for appeal that the observations were made in violation of Article 8 of the ECHR are therefore unsuccessful.

Home visit

4.7.
The appellant further argued that the results of the home visit of 8 February 2017 should not be the basis of the contested decision either, because there was no reasonable reason for this home visit. Furthermore, the home visit is not based on “informed consent”.

4.7.1.
Article 8 (1) of the ECHR provides that everyone has the right to respect for his private life, his family and family life, his home and his correspondence. According to settled case law (judgment of 24 November 2009, ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2009: BK4064), there is no infringement of the home right as referred to in this treaty provision if the rightholder has given permission to enter the home. Consent must be granted voluntarily and on the basis of “informed consent”. This means that the consent of the person concerned is based on complete and correct information about the reason and purpose of the home visit and the consequences of refusing permission for the provision of assistance. The consequences for the provision of assistance related to refusing permission to enter the home depend on whether there is a reasonable ground for the home visit. Such a ground exists if, prior to - that is to say before or at the latest at the start of - the home visit, it is clear that and on the basis of which concrete objective facts and circumstances can reasonably be doubted about the correctness or completeness of the data provided by the person concerned. insofar as they are important in determining the right to assistance and this information cannot be verified in another effective and less burdensome manner for the person concerned. If there is a reasonable reason for making a home visit, the person concerned should be reminded that refusing permission may have consequences for the provision of assistance. In the absence of a reasonable ground, the person concerned should be made aware that refusal of consent has no consequences for assistance. The burden of proof with regard to 'informed consent' when entering the home rests on the assisting body.

4.7.2.
In this case, there was reasonable grounds for making the home visit on February 8, 2017. In the observations discussed above, X's [car] is available every day, sometimes at different times, from January 31, 2017 through February 8, 2017. , and also found early in the morning at the appellant's house. X was also found on several days in the vicinity of the appellant's home. In addition, on January 31, 2017, the Commission received information from municipality C that X had been deregistered there. In addition, the internet survey conducted on January 18 and 25, 2017, found that X's business address included the payout address. In view of these concrete objective facts and circumstances, it was reasonable to doubt the correctness or completeness of the information provided by the appellant regarding her living situation. In the case of the appellant, the Board, after all previously used research resources, was no less burdensome research resource available.

4.7.3.
It is not clear from the copy of the “Informed consent Home visit” form that she signed on 8 February 2017 that the appellant had been explained that not granting permission or not fully cooperating has consequences for her right to assistance, because none of the boxes next to the statements 'yes' or 'no' show a cross. The fact that a cross is visible on the college form in the box next to the word 'yes' does not alter this. The cross-over of the form, which was issued to the appellant, does not show the cross or any trace thereof, while all other entries on this copy are, at least to some extent, visible. This means that it can be reasonably doubted whether the appellant has been explained what the consequences of not granting permission or not fully cooperating in the home visit would be. This doubt does not alter the fact that the Board has made inquiries with the enforcement officers who made the home visit, as stated by the Board during the hearing. The form is precisely intended to provide evidence of the “informed consent”. The mere internal verbal notification by employees of the Commission that the notification was made to the appellant is insufficient for this.

4.7.4.
The circumstance that it does not appear that the requirement of “informed consent” has been met means that with regard to the appellant, there was an infringement of house law as referred to in Article 8 (1) of the ECHR. However, because there was reasonable grounds, this does not mean that the use by the Commission of what has been stated and observed during the home visit goes so far against what can be expected from a properly acting administrative body that this use is unacceptable under all circumstances. should be considered. It is important that if the appellant had been duly informed and subsequently refused to cooperate in the home visit, this refusal could have led to the termination of the assistance. Refusal to cooperate in a home visit for which, as in this case, there is a reasonable ground, provides a legal basis for withdrawal or termination of the assistance if, as a result, the assistance body cannot determine whether there is a right to assistance. There is therefore no reason to disregard the findings of the second home visit on February 8, 2017 for the assessment of the right to assistance, from the date of that home visit.

Factual basis

4.8.
The court rightly ruled that the investigation results, without the findings of the first home visit and the observations for the period up to 31 January 2017 in the evening provide an adequate basis for the conclusion of the Commission that X are at the time of termination of the assistance. main residence at the benefit address. In addition to what was considered in 4.6.4 regarding the observations in the period from January 31, 2017 to February 8, 2017, the information received from the municipality of C on January 31, 2017 about the official deregistration of X and the internet investigation 18 and 25 January 2017, the following is important for this. During the home visit on 8 February 2017, X was present in the home at the payment address. In addition, administration of X was found in the home during the home visit. In the shed a used duvet, a rolling suitcase, two sports bags and plastic bags, several pairs of shoes and various files with paper were found, about which X has stated that this was all his. Those files contain his business administration. The trolley, sports bags and plastic bags include men's clothing and care products, including shaving foam and medicines. In the garden there were also two extendable ladders by X. The appellant told the social investigators during an interview on 8 February 2017 that X is regularly with her. The neighborhood survey of February 8, 2017 also shows that X had his main residence at the benefits address. Several local residents who have signed their statement have declared to the social investigators on February 8, 2017 that they know that X lives at the benefit address because they see him every day. In view of the above, the undated statement by X and his mother that X lives in her house from 18 August 2016 to 18 August 2017 until he has found his own home cannot be attributed to the appellant's meaning.

4.9.
The basis for the termination of the appellant's assistance was, inter alia, in the results of the home visit of 8 February 2017. Although that home visit was unlawful, the damage that may have caused the appellant is due to the lawfulness of the termination of the assistance of appellant with effect from that date, not to order the college to pay for that damage. The court has therefore rightly, albeit on other grounds, ruled that the Commission is not liable to pay damages to the appellant in connection with that home visit.

In view of 4.1 to 4.8, the court has correctly rejected the request for compensation in the form of statutory interest.

4.10.
It follows from 4.1 to 4.9 that the appeal against the attacked judgment is unsuccessful, so that, insofar as it is contested and in view of 4.7.3 and 4.7.4 and 4.9 with improvement of grounds, it must be confirmed.

5. There is no reason for an order to pay the legal costs.

5 Decision
The Central Board of Appeal confirms the attacked decision insofar as it has been contested.

This statement was made by J.T.H. Zimmerman as chairman and M.F. Wagner and M. ter Brugge as members, in the presence of Y. Itkal as registrar. The decision was pronounced in public on March 31, 2020.

(signed) J.T.H. Zimmerman

The registrar is unable to sign.

The parties may lodge an appeal in cassation with the Supreme Court of the Netherlands (PO Box 20303, 2500 EH The Hague) against violation or incorrect application of provisions on the concept of joint household within six weeks after the date of dispatch.