Pronunciation


COURT OF THE HAGUE
Meeting place Middelburg

Administrative law

Case number: AWB 19/7638

V-number: [number]

Single Chamber ruling of 13 February 2020 in the case between
[name] claimant,

authorized representative: mr. J.E. the gate,

and

the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, defendant,

authorized representative: mr. C.W.M. from Breda.

1 Proceedings

By decision of 17 September 2019 (the contested decision), the respondent declared the claimant's objection to the rejection of the application for an MVV to be unfounded.

Plaintiff brought an appeal against the contested decision.

The defendant has lodged a statement of defense.

The appeal was heard on 8 January 2020. Both parties have been represented by their authorized representative.

2 Facts
1. Plaintiff claims to have been born on [date of birth] and to hold Syrian nationality. On 31 March 2017, the claimant submitted an application for the granting of an MVV for the purpose of residence of 'residence as a family or family member to [name 2]. The respondent rejected this application on March 19, 2018.

2. By the contested decision, the claimant's objection to this was declared unfounded. In doing so, the respondent has considered that there is no question of "more than normal emotional ties", so that there is no question of family life worthy of protection within the meaning of Article 8 of the ECHR. According to the respondent, the (informal) care that the claimant claims to need can also be provided by others. Referent stayed very limited with Plaintiff in Syria from his marriage to the plaintiff's daughter in July 2012 until his departure in April 2014.

Plaintiff's daughter and grandson left Syria in August 2015. It does not follow from the medical documents submitted that the claimant is so dependent on the sponsor because of her medical complaints that she cannot function independently. In addition, no form of financial dependence has been found. There is no exclusive, special dependence that transcends normal ties. Furthermore, according to the defendant, there are no close personal ties between the plaintiff and her grandson. For the sake of completeness, the defendant has weighed up an interest in the context of Article 8 of the ECHR. According to the respondent, the balancing of interests also falls to the disadvantage of the claimant and the sponsor.

3 Appeal

3. The plaintiff argues in appeal that the defendant has wrongly concluded that there are no 'more than normal emotional ties' now that there is no question of exclusive dependence. According to the plaintiff, the defendant was also wrongly concerned that it has not been demonstrated that the plaintiff is unable to function without a sponsor and his family. The medical documents clearly show that (informal) care is necessary for the claimant. Given the war situation in Syria, it is not possible to organize home care. This (informal) care can only be provided by the sponsor and his wife. In addition, according to plaintiff, there are close and personal ties with her grandson. The defendant wrongly did not adopt this in the contested decision.

4. The defendant takes the view in the defense and at the hearing that the application for the granting of an MVV for the purpose of 'residence as a family or family member at [name 2]' was correctly rejected. It has not been found that there are "more than normal emotional ties" between the claimant and the sponsor, nor are there any close and personal ties between the claimant and her grandson. Furthermore, the plaintiff's daughter has now been separated from the sponsor and the daughter has left for Lebanon together with his grandson. The respondent notes in the defense that the divorce no longer involves a family-law relationship between claimant and sponsor.

4 Reasons of the Decision

5. The first question to be answered is whether there is a family law relationship between claimant and sponsor. There is no question of that. Due to the divorce between the daughter of the claimant and the sponsor, the family relationship between the claimant and the sponsor has also been broken. In view of this, the court does not address the question of sponsor regarding family or family life within the meaning of Article 8 of the ECHR.

6. Furthermore, it has emerged from the defense and at the hearing that the plaintiff's daughter and grandson are currently not residing in the Netherlands, but in Lebanon. Insofar as it must already be assumed that the claimant's daughter will return to the Netherlands when an MVV is granted to her mother, the respondent has rightly established that there are no "more than normal emotional relationships" between the claimant and her daughter. The defendant has in fact considered and assessed all the circumstances relating to the ties with her subsidiary put forward by the claimant. The defendant has taken into account that, although the plaintiff has medical complaints, she has also been able to take care of herself. Furthermore, it has not been shown that the claimant is financially dependent on her daughter.

7. Finally, the defendant has rightly taken the position with regard to the grandson that there are no close and personal ties on the basis of which family or family life as referred to in Article 8 of the ECHR must be assumed. It follows from the case law of the Division that for the existence of family and family life between (underage) grandchildren and grandparents it is not relevant whether there are more than normal emotional ties ("more than the normal emotional ties"). Whether family and family life exists in this situation is a matter of fact and depends on the actual existence of close personal ties ("close personal ties / sufficiently close family ties"). Thus, in answering the question whether family or family life exists, the defendant must take into account the ties of a grandparent with a grandchild as formed by the factual circumstances. The defendant rightly considered that the mere fact that the grandson lived in one house with the claimant for only a short period of his life and at a very young age does not imply close and personal ties between the claimant and her grandson. The defendant also rightly stated that it has not been substantiated with documents that the grandson experiences psychological problems because he no longer lives with his grandmother.

8. The appeal is unfounded.

9. There is no reason for a court order against costs.

5 Decision
The court declares the appeal unfounded.

This statement was made by Mr. K.M. de Jager, judge, in the presence of

M. van Andel, Registrar and publicly pronounced on February 13, 2020.

Copy sent to parties on:

Remedy
An appeal may be lodged against this decision with the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State within four weeks of its date of dispatch.

Provisional residence permit.

Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.

Ex-wife and child of sponsor.

Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State, see inter alia the judgment of 3 August 2017, ECLI: NL: RVS: 2017: 2050.
