Pronunciation


verdict

COURT OF GELDERLAND
Team canton and commercial law

Meeting place Arnhem

case number / roll number: C / 05/365498 / KG ZA 20-33

Interlocutory judgment of March 19, 2020

in the case of

[claimant],

residing in [place of residence],

plaintiff,

lawyer mr. A.M. Slootweg in Barneveld,

against

[defendant],

residing in [place of residence],

defendant,

lawyer mr. J.L.J. Leijendekker in Wijk bij Duurstede.

Parties will hereinafter be referred to as the father and the mother.

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

the subpoena;

the letter with productions on behalf of the mother;

the oral hearing of March 5, 2020;

the pleading note on behalf of the mother.

1.2.
Finally, judgment has been determined.

2 Facts
2.1.
The father and mother have been married to each other. They have four children:

[child 1], born on [date of birth] in [place of birth];

[child 2], born on [date of birth] in [place of birth];

[child 3], born on [date of birth] in [place of birth];

[child 4], born on [date of birth] in [place of birth].

The parents have joint parental authority and take care of their children in the form of co-parenthood, with the children being changed weekly.

2.2.
The marriage of the parties was dissolved on July 19, 2019 by registering the divorce order of this court of [date] in the registers of civil status.

2.3.
The parenting plan attached to the divorce decision, signed on May 17 and 20, 2019 respectively, includes:

"Article 3. 6

The parents will visit the information and parent evenings together or in mutual consultation separately / alone.

Article 4

The parents will mutually inform and consult each other about important matters relating to the person and the property of the children. "

3 Scope of Dispute
3.1.
The father claims - in summary - to order the mother to send an e-mail message to the mentor of the minor [child 1], in which the mother states that she still wants a joint school conversation with the man and the mentor. The father also orders the mother to order the mother to be physically present during the planned interview and, if she is invited to a school discussion about one of the children, to inform her within two days when she is available. All this subject to the imposition of a penalty on the mother if she does not meet the advanced. In addition, the father requests that he be granted substitute permission to register [child 1] for homework assistance.

3.2.
The father bases his claims that communication between parties is very difficult. The mother does not want to talk to him face to face or by telephone. Everything goes by email or by whats-app message. Any subject that goes a little further than daily practice leads to hassle and the father can no longer accept this.

3.3.
The mother put up a defense during the oral hearing. She argues first that the father is inadmissible in his requests. According to the mother, the parenting plan offers the parents the opportunity to talk to the school about the children as a parent. Moreover, the mere fact that the school once forgot to put the man in a cc of an email to the mother does not justify this procedure.

3.4.
Insofar as relevant, the statements of the parties will be discussed below.

4 Reasons of the Decision
4.1.
During the oral hearing, the father made it clear that he is at his wit's end and in this way - to initiate summary proceedings - give a signal of the seriousness of his concerns about the implementation of joint parenthood. The four children are entitled to parents discussing their care and upbringing with each other. However, he runs into a wall.

4.2.
The mother has indicated that the father too often charges her with app messages and emails, forcing her to reply immediately. According to the mother, things have to go the way the father wants and if she does not give in to his wishes, an endless discussion ensues between the parties. The mother has great difficulty processing the marriage and divorce and wants to be left alone for a while by the father.

4.3.
Urgency also plays a role in assessing whether a case is suitable for a provisional measure. A decision is made on the basis of all the circumstances of the case. The more clarity there is about the facts and about the legal relationship and the less significant the interests of the defendant who oppose the provision of a provisional injunction, the less stringent requirements need to be imposed on the urgency of the claimant's interest. . The following aspects play a role in this consideration.

4.4.
The father's claim is an example, an illustration, of the stiff manner in which parents currently exercise custody of their four children in co-parenting. It is not clear why the regular procedure could not be awaited, since this dispute settlement on the basis of Article 1: 253a of the Dutch Civil Code also requires prompt handling. In such cases, a representative of the Child Protection Board is present who can advise parents on assistance or assess the need for a council investigation. Minors can also make their voices heard and, if necessary, be supported in this by the appointment of a special curator.

4.5.
However, this specific example of the exercise of parental authority does not provide sufficient grounds for an interim measure to be sanctioned with a penalty. It has become clear that parents cannot agree on attending mentor conversations together. However, the parenting plan also offers the opportunity to have those conversations as a parent alone. Now that the mother is not yet able to have these conversations together with the father, there is no agreement about the joint attendance and the parents must do this separately by mutual agreement. At the hearing it turned out that the school has now made provision for the conversations between the mentor and the parents individually.

4.6.
With regard to homework support, the voice of [child 1] is also important and the parents must come to an approach in consultation with her.

The mother brought forward the oral procedure

- with reference to a recent list of grades - that her efforts with [child 1] have resulted in an improvement of the school results and that [child 1] currently stands for only one subject. Moreover, both parents have indicated that [child 1] does not feel much for an external homework counsel, so that the preliminary relief judge does not consider the legal means of a provisional provision appropriate.

4.7.
On the positive side, the parents have agreed during the oral hearing that the parent with whom the children have been that week will inform the other parent on Friday (not earlier if there is no need for this) how it went that week. The other parent will respond to this no later than Saturday.

4.8.
Now that this procedure results from the broken relationship of the parties, the legal costs between them will be compensated.

5 Decision
The preliminary relief judge,

5.1.
rejects the claims;

5.2.
provides that each party bears its own costs of these proceedings.

This judgment was rendered by Dr. G.W. Brands-Bottema and pronounced in public on March 19, 2020.