Pronunciation


COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Civil and Tax Law Department

Team III (family and youth law)

case number: 200.255.617 / 01

court case number: C / 15/265346 / FA RK 17-6052

Multi-Chamber Order of 24 March 2020 on

[the man] ,

residing in [place of residence],

applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the man,

lawyer: mr. J.I. Vervest in Heemskerk,

and

[the woman] ,

residing in [place of residence],

defendant on appeal,

further to be called: the woman,

lawyer: mr. J.W.J. Hines in Beverwijk.

1 Proceedings

For the course of the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of Noord-Holland (Haarlem) of 16 January 2019, corrected by a reparation order of 15 April 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

 The appeal proceedings
2.1.
The man appealed on 5 March 2019 to the aforementioned decision of 16 January 2019, restored by order of 15 April 2019.

2.2.
The woman filed a defense on 23 April 2019.

2.3.
The following documents were also received at the court:

- a journal message from the woman of 31 July 2019 with an appendix (minutes of the hearing at first instance), received on 1 August 2019.

2.4.
By order of this court of July 30, 2019, the husband's request for the enforcement of the divorce decision of July 13, 2016, restored by order of August 24, 2016, to suspend spousal maintenance was rejected.

2.5.
The oral hearing took place on August 28, 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers.

2 Facts
3.1.
The parties were married [in] 2013, which marriage was dissolved on September 14, 2016 by registering in the registers of civil status of the divorce decision of the court of July 13, 2016, which was restored by order of the court of August 24, 2016. .

3.2.
From this marriage were born:

- [child A], [in] 2002 in the municipality of [X], and

- [child B], [in] 2004 in the municipality [X].

3.3.
The aforementioned divorce decision provides - insofar as it is relevant here - that the covenant of divorce that the parties have concluded and the parental plan that the parties have agreed upon form part of the decision and that the man is registered in the registers of the divorce as of the date of registration of the divorce decision. civil status a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing of [child A] and [child B] must pay a total of € 225 per month and as of the same date a contribution towards the living costs of the woman of € 510 per month must be paid.

3.4.
With regard to the child contribution, Article 12 (a) of the parenting plan provides

more specifically the following:

“The following regulation will take effect when the mother has found her own (rental) home and is registered at that new address, she will therefore register [child B] at that address. Until then, the father pays all the costs of the children and the father receives the child benefit and the child-related budget.

The husband and wife will use a separate and / or bank account for the costs of their children. The man will transfer € 462.00 every month no later than the 1st day of the calendar month to which the payment relates to this child account. This account can be consulted by both parents through internet banking and used for paying bills.

The man will receive the child benefit and the child budget related to [Child A] on his account and the woman will receive the child benefit and child budget related to [Child B].

The man will also transfer € 225.00 in child maintenance every month.

This amount of € 225.00 must be credited to a bank account number to be specified in the name of the woman no later than the day of the calendar month to which the payment relates. "

(…)

"The man is willing to pay this amount, while the woman is willing to settle for the said amount. They expressly agree to the aforementioned amount because it fully meets the need and they consider the agreed amount reasonable.

In the event of late payment, the man owes the woman a fine of € 5.00 (five euros) for every day that he remains negligent after five days have elapsed after sending a letter of formal notice to the man, unless the man can demonstrate that the late payment cannot be imputed to him or is at his risk. ”

3.5.
Article 1 (d) of the covenant provides - insofar as relevant here - with regard to spousal maintenance:

“Parties deviate from the current legal duration of partner maintenance as provided in Article 1: 157 paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code. The parties agree that the maintenance will be due for a maximum period of 8.5 (eight and a half) years, counting from the date that the woman has her own (rental) home and is registered at that address.

Partner maintenance also ends as soon as the woman marries, enters into a registered partnership or has started living with another person as if they were married or if they had registered their partnership within the meaning of Section 1: 160 of the Dutch Civil Code. ”

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1.
To the extent relevant now, the contested decision

- stipulates that as of June 22, 2016, the husband must pay € 225 per month as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing (hereinafter also: child maintenance) of [child A] and [child B];

- stipulated that as of June 22, 2016, the husband must pay € 510 per month as a benefit in the living costs of the woman (hereinafter also: spousal maintenance);

- determined that for the period from June 22, 2016 to September 14, 2016, the husband contributes € 618.75 in arrears in the costs of care and upbringing of [child A] and [child B] and in arrears of living expenses of the woman € 1,402.50 to meet the woman;

- the request of the husband to declare in law that his maintenance obligation to the woman has ended on 1 February 2017 or 30 October 2017, while also stipulating that the amounts received by the woman since 1 February 2017 or 30 October 2017 with regard to spousal partner maintenance, must be repaid, rejected.

- the request from the woman to determine that with effect from 1 December 2018, the indexed contribution of € 462 will be transferred to the new child account to be opened on the first day of the month at the latest, and that he will otherwise comply with the agreements as included under 12a of the parenting plan have been rejected;

- the request of the woman to determine that the man, without the woman having to give him another written period of five days, forfeits a fine of € 5 per day for every violation of Article 1 (b) of the divorce settlement and Article 12 under a of the parenting plan, whereby the exceptions of the aforementioned articles will continue to apply;

- the request of the husband to reject the provisions in the parenting plan with regard to the child account and the fine provisions in both the covenant and the parenting plan are ineffective.

4.2.
The man appeals on appeal:

- annul the contested decision as regards the effective date of child and spousal maintenance and dismiss the woman's requests in that regard;

- to grant his request to declare in law that his maintenance obligation to the woman has ended on 1 February 2017 or 30 October 2017, while also stipulating that the woman has received since 1 February 2017 or 30 October 2017 amounts related to spousal maintenance must be repaid to the man;

- to release him from his obligation to pay a monthly contribution to one and / or. child account of € 462.

4.3.
The woman requests that the appeals made by the man on appeal be rejected, that the contested decision be ratified and that the man be ordered to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings.

5 Reasons of the Decision
5.1.
The following are at issue:

- the commencement date of the child maintenance to be paid by the husband to the wife;

- the commencement date of spousal maintenance and whether the woman lives together within the meaning of Article 1: 160 BW;

- the child account.

Effective date of child maintenance

5.2.
The man is of the opinion that the court wrongly set the commencement date for child maintenance on June 22, 2016, which date is before the date of registration of the divorce decision. This judgment contradicts the divorce decision, which stipulates that the starting date of the partner and child maintenance is the date of registration of the divorce decision. The woman did not appeal against that decision. Although the divorce decision provides that the parenting plan is attached, this does not mean, according to the man, that the starting date can be before the date of registration of the divorce decision. The husband is of the opinion that, in accordance with the agreements made in the parenting plan, child maintenance can only be owed from the moment that [child B] was actually registered with the woman.

5.3.
The woman agrees with the commencement date determined by the court. As of that date she was registered at the address of her own rental home and as of that date she entered into co-parenting. She disputes that the arrangements in the divorce settlement must be interpreted in such a way that the date of registration of [child B] at the woman's address would determine the commencement date. She refers to the mail exchange between her and the mediator, in which the man is included in the CC, which clearly states the possibility that the woman could find a house earlier than the registration of the divorce.

5.4.
The court considers as follows. The parties disagree on the interpretation of the agreement they have concluded. According to settled case-law, the interpretation of an agreement between the parties is not limited solely to the linguistic meaning of the wording, but also to the meaning which the parties could reasonably accord to these provisions in the given circumstances and to what they could reasonably expect from each other. In this context, therefore, not only the wording of the agreement is relevant in this respect, but also the circumstances. The Court of Appeal agrees with the court that it follows from the agreements made by the parties in the covenant with regard to the care for the children that the intention of the parties was that as soon as the woman had her own living space, the (co-parenting) care arrangement and that from that date the husband would pay child maintenance to the woman. As of June 22, 2016, the woman had her own home and from that period on, the care for the children has been approximately equally divided between the parties. It is not clear why, given the agreements made between the parties, the man should (should) have assumed that he would only owe child maintenance from a later commencement date. In the opinion of the court that the woman [child B] was unable to register at this address is not a circumstance that gives cause for a later commencement date. Nor that the court has included a different effective date in (the operative part of) the divorce decision, in view of the arrangement agreed by the parties. The woman's (lawyer) has requested the court to restore the decision on this point. The court has rejected this request, correctly considering that the parties are mutually related to the effective date of the maintenance contributions that they have agreed in the parenting plan and the divorce settlement. The court does not follow the man in his assertion that the commencement date included in the dictum of the divorce decision has been given res judicata, since the court has not decided on a legal relationship in disputes between the parties in that order, in which the covenant is attached. According to legal consideration 2.5.1 of that decision, the parties had already resolved their dispute themselves by concluding the covenant. The fact that the court subsequently appended the covenant to the divorce order and, in the operative part, incorporated, apparently imperfectly, provisions on child and spousal maintenance has no further purpose than to grant an executory title to the party for whom the maintenance has been determined ( cf. HR November 19, 1982, NJ 1983, 494). Circumstances as to why those decisions would have been neither more extensive nor apparent. It follows from the above that the contested decision will be ratified insofar as the starting date of child maintenance has been set on June 22, 2016.

Partner maintenance

5.5.
Also with regard to spousal maintenance, the husband is of the opinion that the court wrongly set the effective date on June 22, 2016 (in deviation from the statutory regulations and the effective date stated in the operative part of the divorce decision). In addition, according to the man, the court wrongly considered that the parties have agreed “that the duration of the partner's maintenance will be determined for a maximum period of 8.5 years and that they have determined the start of this period on the date that the woman has her own takes up residence and is registered at that address ”. The man states that the parties to the covenant have not made any deviation from the law regarding the commencement date, but only about the duration of the partner's maintenance. The husband remarks that the court's consideration that the parties assumed that the woman might occupy her own (social) rental home before the date of the divorce is not based on facts.

Furthermore, the husband states that his maintenance obligation to the woman has ended on 1 February or 1 October 2017 and that the woman must repay the partner maintenance received since that date. According to the husband, the woman (in any case) lives with her partner from that date as referred to in Article 1: 160 BW and all criteria formulated in case law are met, namely the affective relationship of a sustainable nature, cohabitation, mutual care and a common household. The man mentions in his appeal a number of circumstances that he believes support his position, including that the woman and her partner go on holiday together, that the woman also takes care of her partner's dogs, that she uses her partner's car and that she makes trips with her partner and the children. The man states that it was already clear in February 2017 that she lived together, even though she still rented an (anti-squat) home. She celebrated her birthday at her partner's house in February 2017 and shortly afterwards the children reported to the man that he could pick them up from the woman's partner. As of October 30, 2017, the woman is also registered at the address of her partner.

According to the man, the court has denied that there is a turning point in case law with regard to Article 1: 160 BW. He refers to judgments of the court of The Hague (July 9, 2008, ECLI: NL: GHSGR: BD9380) Court Arnhem-Leeuwarden (June 7, 2016, ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2015: 4501) and court 's-Hertogenbosch (January 26 2017, ECLI: NL: GHSHE: 2017: 245) whereby the appeal to Article 1: 160 BW has been honored. The man is of the opinion that he has provided sufficient evidence that the requirements of Article 1: 160 BW have been met. If the Court of Appeal considers that one of these points is still unclear, it considers it reasonable and fair to reverse the burden of proof.

The husband added to this on appeal that the wife and her partner are in a family situation, that they run errands and go on holiday together, and that the wife may now have her own rental home because it provides financial benefits for her.

5.6.
The woman has contested the man's statements. With regard to the commencement date of spousal maintenance, the woman is of the opinion that the court has correctly interpreted the agreement between the parties. Pursuant to the law, spousal maintenance commences on the date of registration of the divorce decision. However, the woman is of the opinion that the statutory system, in view of, inter alia, Article 1: 158 BW, allows parties to a covenant / agreement to make an agreement that deviates from the statutory regulation. According to the woman, it was pointless to appeal the divorce decision because what the parties had requested was granted. The woman disputes the husband's reasoning that before the commencement date of the spousal maintenance has not deviated from the statutory regulation, but it has with regard to the duration.

The woman further disputes that she lives together, or at least lived together with her partner, as referred to in Section 1: 160 BW. She acknowledges that she has an affective relationship with her partner and that she has temporarily moved in with him as of 30 October 2017 because she had to leave her (anti-squat) home and she had not yet found another home. However, the intention from the outset was that this situation was temporary, that is, until she found her own home. She has entered into a lease with her partner and paid rent to him. The woman and her partner reported it to the tax authorities and the construction has been classified as subletting by the tax authorities. They kept the finances separate and she kept her own things in a storage. As of August 28, 2018, she has found her own rental home, where she currently lives. The woman disputes that the case law mentioned by the husband applies to her situation and that there is a turning point in case law. In addition, although the husband's reliance on Section 1: 160 BW does not succeed in view of the above, the wife disputes that there was a joint household and mutual care. There was no financial entanglement between her and her partner, she paid for her own holidays and did the shopping for herself and the children as much as possible. If things were advanced, this was refunded. She kept as many receipts as possible. If necessary, she is able to bring the collected receipts and other documents proving the foregoing into question. It is clear that in the present case the criteria of Article 1: 160 BW are not met. There is therefore no ground for reversing the burden of proof, according to the woman.

The woman added to this on appeal that she has a relationship and spends time with her partner, but that she lives on her own and that the eldest son of the parties now also lives with her. It disputes that it would have its own rental home simply because of the financial benefits.

Commencement date partner maintenance

5.7.
With regard to the commencement date of spousal maintenance - with the court - the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that, in view of the text of the covenant and the other facts and circumstances, it follows that the parties (in deviation from the statutory regulation) have agreed that the from the date the woman took up an owner-occupied home and was registered at that address (which happened on 22 June 2016), the husband would pay the agreed contribution for a maximum period of 8.5 years from that date. . The husband's assertion that the parties have only agreed a term deviating from the law, but not a commencing date that deviates from the law, is insufficiently substantiated by him, contrary to the substantiated dispute by the woman and taking into account the text of the covenant. The Court of Appeal will therefore also ratify the contested decision with regard to the commencement date of spousal maintenance.

Living together as referred to in Article 1: 160 BW

5.8.
Furthermore, the Court of Appeal must assess whether there is or has been a situation in which the woman has lived with her partner as referred to in Section 1: 160 BW. The court considers as follows for this.

In accordance with settled case-law, it is not sufficient for the divorced spouse and his or her new partner to live together, but it is also required that an affective affirmative relationship be established between them in order to provide an affirmative answer to the question of whether there is a society within the meaning of Section 1: 160 BW. relationship exists of a lasting nature which means that they mutually take care of each other and run a common household. The exceptional and irrevocable character of the art. 1: 160 Civil Code requires that this provision be interpreted restrictively, which means that it is not easy to assume that the requirements set by this provision for the termination of the obligation to provide maintenance have not been satisfied. It follows, among other things, that the fact that certain conditions for the application of art. 1: 160 BW has been met, does not affect the obligation to compose and the burden of proof with regard to the other conditions for the application of that provision. The husband appeals to Article 1: 160 BW and thus to the far-reaching consequence of this that his maintenance obligation towards the woman has ended with effect from 1 February 2017 or 1 October 2017. He must therefore lay down and, if necessary, prove all the aforementioned requirements that apply to society within the meaning of Section 1: 160 BW.

In the opinion of the court, the woman has sufficiently substantiated that the cohabitation with her partner was intended from the start, namely to bridge the period until she found another home. The court takes into account that the woman paid rent to her partner, that her partner and they have passed on this (sub-lease) construction to the tax authorities, that she kept her own belongings in a warehouse and that she continued to search for a new home, which she also found in August 2018 and where she currently lives. Now that society has been temporary from the outset, it cannot be said of “living together with another person as if they were married”.

Also in the light of the motivated contestation by the woman, the husband has made insufficient statements regarding the requirements of joint housekeeping and mutual care between her and her partner. In this regard, the Court of Appeal considers that the circumstances mentioned by the man (as listed in his appeal) correspond with the observation that the woman and her partner have an affective relationship and spend time together, which is not disputed either, but that these circumstances offer insufficient leads for establishing that there is mutual care and running a common household. In view of the foregoing considerations, the reversal of the burden of proof advocated by the man may remain further discussed.

Child account

5.9.
The man is of the opinion that the court has wrongly not taken a decision with regard to the child account not used by the parties, as included in the parenting plan. At first instance, the woman claimed compliance with all agreements as made in the divorce settlement and in the parental plan. The parenting plan includes under 12a that a joint bank account would be maintained in connection with the costs of children / child maintenance. This provision has not been complied with. The man requests that he be released from the obligation to deposit into the account, which the woman has access to and whose purpose is unclear.

At the appeal hearing, the woman stated that the child's account had been closed at some point by the husband and that, in proceedings currently pending before the court, she requested that the provision regarding the child's account be deleted and that child maintenance be provided.

Reasons of the Decision
5.10.
The court considers as follows. Insofar as the woman intended to still defend the husband's request, she has insufficient interest in this respect, given her position on the child account in the proceedings pending before the court, as she has shown in this appeal. Now that the woman herself also opts not to have this contribution paid in this way, the court will grant the request of the man in that the woman cannot derive any rights from this agreement.

5.11.
There is insufficient reason to order the man to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings, as requested by the woman. The court will compensate the legal costs, in the sense that each party bears its own costs.

5.12.
This leads to the next decision.

6 Decision
The Council:

stipulates that the woman cannot derive any rights from the agreement made by the parties in the parenting plan that the husband must pay the agreed amount of € 462 by transfer to a separate and / or bank account, with annulment of the contested decision to the extent that ;

ratifies the order whose appeal is otherwise subject to the judgment of the court;

dismisses the appeal more or differently requested on appeal;

compensates the legal costs in the sense that each party bears its own costs.

This decision was made by mr. A.V.T. de Bie, mr. A.N. van de Beek and mr. T.M. Subelack, in the presence of Mr. E.E. Kraan as registrar and was pronounced in public by the chairman on March 24, 2020.