Pronunciation


COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE HERTOGENBOSCH

Family and youth law team

Case number: 200.262.612 / 02

case number court proceedings: C / 01/333445 / FA RK 18-2044

decision amending provisional provisions of the multiple chamber

from March 19, 2020

on

[the woman] ,

residing in [place of residence],

applicant,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer mr. E.P.E. from Ekelen in Eindhoven,

against

[the man] ,

residing in [place of residence],

defendant,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer mr. M.M. van der Marel in Eindhoven.

1 Proceedings
1.1.
By order of interim provisions of the court of East Brabant of August 16, 2018, the court has determined that the woman will only be entitled to use the marital home in [place] and, insofar as currently relevant, the court has requested the woman declined to establish a provisional living contribution to be paid by the husband (hereinafter also: spousal maintenance).

1.2.
By decision of 27 December 2018 to amend the provisional provisions of the District Court of Brabant, the woman was declared inadmissible in her request to amend the provisional provisions decision of 16 August 2018 and to establish provisional alimony.

1.3.
By order of the court of East Brabant of November 23, 2018, the court pronounced the divorce between the parties. In addition, insofar as it is currently relevant, this decision has detained the woman's request for partner maintenance and the primary residence of the minor named [minor] hereinafter referred to as the man.

1.4.
By order of the court of East Brabant of April 12, 2019, the court rejected the woman's request to establish spousal maintenance, insofar as it is currently relevant.

1.5.
The woman appealed to this court on July 11, 2019, including as far as the decision rejecting the request for spousal maintenance is concerned. That case is known to the court under case number 200.262.612 / 01.

2 Appeal
2.1.
On 13 January 2020, the woman filed a petition to make a provisional measure under Article 821 - 826 DCCP.

2.2.
On February 10, 2020, the man filed a statement of changes in interim relief.

2.3.
The oral hearing took place on February 25, 2020.

Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers.

2.4.
The following documents were also received at the court:

- a journal message from the woman of February 13, 2020 with appendices, containing a deed submitting productions, also including amendment request, received on February 14, 2020;

- a journal message from the man of February 17, 2020 with attachments, received on February 18, 2020;

- a fax from the woman on 18 February 2020.

3 Facts
3.1.
The court starts from the facts established by the court in the aforementioned decisions. Among other things, the following has emerged.

3.2.
Parties were married on September 6, 1997 in [place]. Parties are born out of the marriage:

- [young adult] ([young adult]), born on [date of birth] 1999,

- [minor], born on [date of birth] 2002.

The minor [minor] has the main residence with the man.

The young adult [young adult] lives with the woman.

3.3.
The aforementioned divorce decision was entered in the registers of civil status on March 7, 2019.

4 Scope of Dispute
4.1.
After modifying her request, the woman requested, by order of interim relief, for the duration of the proceedings and as far as practicable, in stock:

I. to establish that the woman has an additional need for a living contribution in accordance with the requirements list of € 5,750 net per month or

€ 10,492 gross per month, at least in the alternative to determine the additional need in accordance with the court formula on the additional need of € 5,191 net per month or € 9,385 gross per month and to order the man primarily to pay a provisional spousal maintenance in accordance with the requirement of € 10,492 gross per month, to be paid by the man in advance to the woman as of the day on which the divorce decision is registered in the registers of the Registry Office or from the moment that the husband has signed his employment contract, or the date of submission of this petition, at least the amount of the additional need of the woman, the amount of the provisional maintenance allowance and the commencement date of the maintenance obligation as determined by the court;

II. costs in law.

4.2.
In his defense, the provisional provision, received on February 10, 2020, requested:

I. reject the request in this regard for the financial contribution to the maintenance of the woman, or to reduce it as requested to an amount and duration (whereby the man considers a term of up to five years to be reasonable, or to determine a term that the court deems correct), with an effective date that the court deems correct;

II. order the woman to pay the costs of the present proceedings.

5 Reasons of the Decision
Change of circumstances

5.1.1.
In short, the woman has stated the following. There are several changes in circumstances: the man has a new employment, the financial position of the woman has seriously deteriorated because she has had to intervene on her assets, which means that she is now in a financial emergency and finally the man has been sentenced to the young adult daughter of the parties, [young adult], to pay a contribution towards the cost of living and study. The woman needs a contribution of the husband to make a living of € 5,750 net per month, now that the woman with her income of € 1,716 gross per month cannot provide for her own living, for which contribution the husband suffices has carrying capacity.

5.1.2.
The husband has contested the statements of the woman with motivation. In summary, the man has stated the following. There is no question of the changes in the circumstances alleged by the woman. The woman also consumed her capital in the previous provisional relief procedures, in the previous procedures account was also taken of a contribution by the husband to [young adult] and, if and insofar as there is already a change in the income of the man, this would not be an argument for the woman, but at most for the man, if partner maintenance was determined, to request a change or reduction in partner maintenance. The factual data regarding the determination of the woman's need, her additional need and the man's ability to pay have also not changed and these aspects have already been addressed in the previous procedures.

5.1.3.
The court considers the following.

Neither by order of 16 August 2018, nor by order of 27 December 2018, the judge made a substantive decision on the woman's request to establish a provisional maintenance contribution. In the first preliminary injunction procedure, the judge ruled that the woman did not name her income and did not state how high her additional need was. The woman's request was therefore rejected due to the failure to comply with the obligation to compose. In the second procedure, the woman's request to amend this decision was declared inadmissible because the judge ruled that her request for amendment had the nature of a disguised appeal, which was ruled contrary to Article 824 (2) DCCP. In general, if no substantive decisions have been made in a procedure, the previous applicant is free to resubmit the application with an improved application (cf. HR November 19, 1993, ECLI: NL: HR: 1993: ZC1151 , NJ 1994/175 and HR October 13, 2000, ECLI: NL: HR: 2000: AA7481, NJ 2001/210). In addition, with regard specifically to maintenance orders, no res judicata is entitled to the extent that these decisions are subject to change on the basis of Article 1: 401 paragraph 1 or paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. In HR December 20, 2013, ECLI: NL: HR: 2013: 2109, (JBPR 2014/8, with note E. Gras), the Supreme Court ruled: “Is on the basis of art. 1: 401 BW requested modification of a court order concerning maintenance, then the judge… is not bound by dispute decisions in the judgment of which modification is requested, if it turns out that one or more of the grounds mentioned in those provisions arise. In that case, the judge will have to re-establish the subsistence allowance, taking into account all relevant circumstances, and will not be bound by judgments regarding those circumstances in the decision of which change is requested. This also applies if - as in this case - on the basis of art. 1: 401 of the Dutch Civil Code, an amendment to the maintenance is requested, while in an earlier procedure in which the applicant had requested the same, that the application had been rejected because the applicant had not provided sufficient information to substantiate the change in circumstances that led to his application HR May 25, 2007, ECLI: NL: HR: 2007: BA0902, NJ 2007/518). ”

In this ruling, the HR also ruled that the opinion that amendment of the earlier decision on the basis of Art. 1: 401 paragraph 4 BW is not possible, since no contribution has been established by that decision, but only the request for nullification of the man has been rejected, is incorrect.

Art. 1: 401 paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil Code therefore applies to any judicial maintenance decision based on incorrect or incomplete information. It is not required that that decision itself contains a determination of maintenance.

The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the above also applies to maintenance decisions that are made by way of provisional provision on the basis of Article 822 DCCP, now that Article 824 paragraph 2 DCCP has a comparable possibility of amendment as Article 1: 401 paragraph 1 and paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. After all, provisional provisions can also be changed in the event of a change in circumstances or if incorrect or incomplete data is assumed, with the only difference that the change in the previous provision is not changed with every change or inaccuracy of the original data. but only in obvious cases. It follows from the above that the woman is free to request a provisional measure again with an improved petition. The Court of Appeal is also of the opinion that the woman has provided sufficient financial information to assess her substantive request, not to mention that the woman has sufficiently demonstrated that she is currently in a financial emergency. In short, the Court of Appeal ignores the statement of the man, that there is no question of a changed situation that meets the requirements of Article 824 paragraph 2 DCCP, now that this statement does not recognize that the judge is gave a purely procedural judgment in the earlier decisions of 16 August 2018 and that of 27 December 2018. Of these procedural judgments with which the previous proceedings ended, namely the rejection of the request for non-compliance with the obligation to compose or the inadmissibility, after all, it cannot be said - and is not claimed by women today - that they are based on incorrect or incomplete information. In other words, the woman does not contest the procedural law judgment, she has now only supplemented her statements with an improved motivation and substantiation with financial data in a new procedure in order to obtain a substantive judgment.

Now that the court has rejected the request for spousal maintenance of the woman in the main proceedings and that rejection has not become final because the woman has appealed it to the court, the woman can, in view of Article 821 paragraph 1 and Article 826 , paragraph 1, under c, of the Rv, still request a temporary provision. Furthermore, there is sufficient connection between the requested provision and the appeal lodged with this court. The woman is therefore admissible in her request.

starting date

5.2.1.
The effective date is in dispute between the parties. The woman has primarily requested to set the commencement date on March 7, 2019, the day on which the divorce decision is entered in the registers of civil status. The man has primarily argued that the (possibly) to be determined partner maintenance should not start earlier than on the date of the decision to be made by the court.

5.2.2.
The court considers the following. The court sees no reason to start from the commencement date requested by the woman, since this would result in a far-reaching retroactive effect with which the man did not have to take into account. It would have been in the woman's way to ask for a provisional relief sooner. As of the date on which the woman filed her change request with the court, January 13, 2020, the husband was able to take into account the possibility that he will have to pay provisional partner maintenance to the woman. In view of this, the court sets the commencement date on January 13, 2020.

Need and additional need of the woman

5.3.
The parties discussed the oral procedure, and the parties agreed to the oral procedure that, in the context of this provisional relief procedure, the capacity of the man is the limiting factor, at least, assuming that a need of the woman is based on on the court standard as well as that based on the current working income of the woman, the woman will at least need the maintenance contribution that the man can pay to the woman, given his ability to pay.

The court assumes this, so that now only the capacity of the man has to be assessed.

Carrying capacity of the man

5.4.
The man's ability to pay is in dispute between the parties. The court of the following data.

Income of the man

5.5.
The man entered the employment of [company], located in [place of business] (India), co-located in [place of business] on 5 June 2019. The pay slip of January 2020 submitted by the man shows a salary of the man in total of € 11,250 gross. This salary corresponds to the man's salary of € 135,000 gross per year referred to in Article 3, paragraph 1 of the employment contract. According to Article 3 paragraph 2, the salary also includes the holiday allowance. The court assumes this.

5.6.1.
With regard to the husband's income, the woman has also stated that there is also a bonus scheme. However, the man has not given any insight into that arrangement, which would have been in his way, according to the woman. In the woman's ability to pay calculation, the woman assumes a husband's taxable wages of € 155,000.

The husband has argued the woman's argument motivated. At the oral hearing, the man stated the following. The man has agreed a bonus scheme with his employer, but there is no structural bonus. The bonus that may be received from the employer depends on various parameters and variables. The man has not yet received this scheme from his employer, so that at the moment he cannot provide any insight into that scheme. The man did receive a bonus of at least € 6,000 gross in at least for 2019, but this concerned a one-off bonus, which had already been agreed at the start of the employment, as can also be seen from page 12 of production 11. submitted employment contract of the man. At this time, the man does not receive a bonus.

5.6.2.
Based on the currently known and established data, the court does not take a bonus into account when calculating the man's ability to pay. Now that this is a provisional injunction and that this investigation would go too far in this context, the court assumes the man's actual salary, without bonus, as in paragraph 5.5. is shown, of € 135,000 gross per year.

5.7.
For the tax aspects, the court refers to the capacity calculation appended to this order and which form part of this order. The court notes the following. The documents and the oral proceedings showed that the man has now left the marital home more than 24 months ago. The Court of Appeal did not take into account the tax effects in respect of the home, including half of the WOZ value and the recent WOZ value, nor the recent level of the mortgage debt (noting that the tax effects in box III concerns which, if introduced, would be nil). The court calculates the man's net disposable income at € 6,372 per month (see the calculation in the appendix).

Burdens of the man

5.8.
The court takes into account the standard amount based on the Participation Act, excluding the lower limit for the housing costs component, for a single person living independently, to provide for the necessary costs of living.

5.9.
With regard to his housing costs, the man has submitted a lease from 1 February 2017, showing a basic rent of € 882 per month and whereby advances to the landlord and service costs do not apply. The man paid the landlord at the end of 2018, as shown by the bank statement (production 12) submitted by the man, an amount of € 910.24 per month, with which amount the court, also in the absence of recent data regarding the rental charge of the man takes into account.

5.10.
The court does not take into account a health insurance premium now that the man receives compensation from his employer, as shown in the January 2020 pay slip.

Determination of maintenance

5.11.
After deducting the aforementioned expenses from the above net disposable income, the man has a carrying capacity of € 4,640 per month. In principle, 60% of this is available for the payment of spousal maintenance.

5.12.
The court must also take into account the costs of the children. There is no dispute between the parties that the man must pay a contribution to the cost of living and study to [young adult] of € 897 per month. The man also has costs for the minor [minor]. The costs of the children are undisputed by the woman

€ 1,420 per month, which is € 710 per child per month (2016 level). Analogous to the statutory indexation, the costs of [minor] with effect from 1 January 2020 amount to € 769.26 per month. Taking into account the total costs of [young adult] and [minor] of completed

€ 1,666 per month, the husband has the capacity to pay a partner's maintenance allowance to the woman of € 1,118 per month (see appendix).

Paid partner maintenance is tax deductible for income tax. The tax benefit that the husband enjoys through this deduction is entirely for the benefit of the wife. Taking this into account, the man is able (provisionally) to pay a partner's maintenance allowance of € 2,070 gross per month. The court refers to the capacity calculation attached to this order and which forms part of this order.

Litigation costs

5.13.
The court will compensate the costs of the proceedings in this amendment procedure in the sense that each party bears its own costs now that the parties are former husbands and the procedure concerns the woman's living expenses.

5.14.
The foregoing leads to the following decision.

6 Decision
The Council:

stipulates that with effect from 13 January 2020, the man must pay the woman as a provisional contribution to her subsistence an amount of € 2,070 per month, to pay the installments that have not yet appeared in advance;

declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

compensates the costs of these proceedings in that each party is to bear its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. C.A.R.M. van Leuven, J.F.A.M. Graafland-Verhaegen and J.C.E. Ackermans-Wijn and was pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar on March 19, 2020.
