Pronunciation


Court THE HAGUE

Multiple Room

Case number: FA RK 18-3187 (divorce) / FA RK 18-8559 (divide)

Case number: C / 09/552447 (divorce) / C / 09/563637 (divide)

Date of decision: March 17, 2020

Child maintenance, spousal maintenance, settlement of the prenuptial agreement and lifting of the precautionary attachment

Decision on the request received on 1 May 2018 from:
[x],
the woman,

having regard to a written power of attorney with regard to alimony also occurring for:

[young adult 1 name in full] & [name of young adult 2, name in full],

the young adults, hereinafter also [name of young adult 1] and [name of young adult 2],

all residing in [place of residence],

lawyer: mr. C. Elsinga in Leiden.

Interested parties are:

[Y],
the man,

residing in [place of residence],

lawyer: mr. A.W. van Rijn in Katwijk.

1 Proceedings

By order of April 30, 2019 of this court:

the divorce between parties pronounced;

stipulates that the (then) minors:

- [name of young adult 2, full name], born on [birthday] 2002 in [place of birth],

- [name of minor 1, in full], born on [date of birth] 2008 in [place of birth], and

- [name of minor 2, in full], born on [date of birth] in [place of birth],

have the primary residence with the woman;

determined that [name of young adult 2] and [minor 1] will be with the man once every fortnight from Saturday 10 am to Sunday 4 pm;

provides that [minor 2] be with men once every fortnight on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. and on Sunday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.;

determines that [name of young adult 2], [minor 1] and [minor 2] on Father's Day, the husband's birthday and three weeks during the holidays (of which two weeks during the summer holidays) will be with the man;

provides that from the date on which the divorce order is entered in the civil registers, the man will pay the woman provisionally for the care and education of minors:

- for [name of young adult 2] an amount of € 322 per month, and

- for [minor 1] and [minor 2] an amount of € 385 per month per child;

provides that the man, with effect from the day on which the divorce order will be entered in the registers of civil status, provisionally for the cost of living and study of the young adult [young adult 1 name in full], born on [birthday] 2000 in [place of birth], will pay an amount of € 385 per month;

stipulates that the woman is authorized vis-à-vis the man to continue inhabiting the house in [postcode] [place of residence], [address of marital home], and to continue to use the goods belonging to this house and the contents thereof for six months after the day on which the divorce order will be entered in the registers of civil status, provided that this house is occupied by the woman at the time of that registration and that the husband belongs exclusively or in part or is for use.

The requests regarding child maintenance, spousal maintenance, the settlement of the prenuptial agreement and the lifting of the precautionary attachment have been dealt with in order to give the parties the opportunity to value the companies and the value of the (marital) home at the expense of the husband, to be determined by independent experts and to negotiate the final maintenance amounts and the settlement of the prenuptial agreement.

The divorce was entered in the registers of civil status on [date of divorce registration] 2019.

The court has again taken note of the documents, including now:

the F9 form with annex of 24 September 2019 on the part of the woman;

the letter of 27 September 2019 from the side of the man;

the F9 form with annexes of 30 January 2020 on the part of the woman;

the F9 form with annexes of 30 January 2020 on the part of the man;

the F9 form with annexes of 31 January 2020 on the part of the man;

the F9 form with annexes of 31 January 2020 on the part of the man.

The hearing continued on 11 February 2020. The following appeared: the woman with her lawyer and the man with his lawyer. Pleading notes were submitted on the part of the man.

After the hearing, the court received:

- the F9 form of 24 February 2020 on the part of the woman, with attached a written power of attorney regarding maintenance for the young adult [name of young adult 2].

2 Appeal
The woman's outstanding requests are:

declare the man inadmissible in his additional requests or reject his additional requests;

child maintenance of € 546.25 per month per child, to be paid in advance, plus any allowance that the woman will or may be granted for those minors under applicable laws or other regulations, plus the statutory indexation percentage from the date of filing of the supplementary application;

determination of partner alimony to be paid by the man to the woman of € 6,000 per month, to be paid in advance, plus the statutory indexation percentage, counting from the date of submission of the supplementary petition;

determination of the division of the simple community existing between the parties and settlement of the prenuptial agreement, as set out in points 33 to 49 of the supplementary application;

lifting the precautionary attachment on the matrimonial home;

all this as far as possible with a declaration of enforceability with stock.

The husband has put up a defense against the ancillary services requested by the woman, which defense will - as far as necessary - be discussed below. The man's currently independent requests are as follows:

reject the (additional) requests of the woman;

determining the division of the community of goods existing between the parties and implementing the prenuptial agreement, whereby the companies and their shares, the car and the motor boat, the other boat and the household effects remain or (alternatively) are allocated to the husband, and the matrimonial home in [postcode] [place of residence] is allocated to [husband's home address] to the husband, or (more in the alternative) that the property is sold and the associated debts, including at least the mortgages and the costs of the broker are repaid / paid, and the remaining surplus value is allocated to the man, or (even more in the alternative) that the surplus / undervalue is shared between parties and also the value / yield of the policy is shared;

sentencing the woman to cooperate (primarily) in the delivery of the house in [postcode] [place of residence] to [address marital home] to the man, or (in the alternative) sale of the house to a woman within fourteen days after the decision. third by appointing a broker and adhering to the asking price advised by the broker, under penalty of forfeiture of a penalty of € 500 for each day or part thereof that the woman defaults on the order issued for this purpose. meet;

an order by the woman to pay an amount of € 77,905 (regarding the donation of the parents) or, in the alternative, a different amount, against discharge, to the man within fourteen days after the order (or any other term to be determined by the court);

sentencing the woman to pay € 75,000 (in respect of debts caused by the woman to [name of company 1], or assets that have been withdrawn, within fourteen days after the order (or within another term to be determined by the court) on the part of the man), or alternatively pay another amount against discharge to the man;

as of 1 October 2019, to set child maintenance (primarily) at € 50 per child per month, or (alternatively) set it at € 124 per child per month,

all this as far as possible with a declaration of enforceability with stock.

The woman has put up a defense against the ancillary services requested by the man, which defense will be discussed below - insofar as necessary.

3 Reasons of the Decision
Child maintenance & maintenance for young adults

Needs children and young adults

In determining the need for a child allowance and a contribution for young adults, the court applies the principles as set out in the table of own costs of children and the guideline of the Expert Group on Maintenance Standards (Tremar report).

The woman has stated that the needs of the children and young adults must be based on a Net Disposable Income (NBI) during the marriage of parties of € 8,884 per month in 2018. According to the woman, the need should therefore be calculated on the basis of the maximum family income according to the requirements table of

€ 6,000 per month. From the table it follows that the needs of the children in 2018 were € 2,185 per month. Now that the man has not disputed this need of the children, or at least provides insufficient motivation, the court assumes a need of the four (then) minor children of € 2,185 per month. Indexed to 2020, the requirement of the four children together is € 2,284 per month, being a requirement of € 571 per child / young adult per month.

At the hearing, the woman stated that there are need-increasing costs with regard to [name of young adult 2] and [name of young adult 1]. The need of [name of young adult 2] must be increased by € 100 per month for his transport to [school]. The requirement of [name of young adult 1] must be increased by € 120 per month, being the cost of the premium for his health insurance. Now that these costs have not been disputed by the man, the court increases the needs of [name of young adult 2] and [name of young adult 1] with these costs.

It follows from the above that [minor 2] and [minor 1] have a need of € 571 per month. The need of [name of young adult 2] is € 671 per month and the need of [name of young adult 1] is € 691 per month.

Woman carrying capacity

The woman has stated that she has a minimum capacity of € 50 per month, given her current income of up to € 10,000 gross per year. Now that the man has not disputed this ability to pay, at least with insufficient motivation, the court follows the amounts as stated in the woman's ability to pay calculation. The court assumes a salary according to an annual statement of € 9,801 gross. Taking into account the child-related budget to be received by the woman for the two children who are still under age, the general tax credit, combination tax credit and the employed person's tax credit, the court's calculation results in an NBI of the woman of € 1,254 per month. In accordance with the capacity table, the woman has a minimum capacity of € 50 per month.

Carrying capacity man

The man has stated that he has sold his businesses [name of company 1] and [name of company 2]. He now works as an employee and has an income of € 2,913.38 gross per month. However, since the man is currently ill, the question is whether his temporary employment contract will be extended, the man said.

The woman has stated that there is culpable loss of income on the man's side. The man has not fulfilled his duty to demonstrate that he was forced to dispose of his businesses. According to the information that the woman has obtained from an accountant, the man must be able to obtain € 85,000 gross from his companies every year. According to the woman, the income of the man must therefore be based on this income.

The court considers that it is possible that the debtor, in this case the man, has caused a reduction in his income by his own conduct. In the case of self-induced income loss, that income reduction can be wholly or partly disregarded when determining the man's ability to pay. In the first place, this depends on whether the man should reasonably be expected to be able to regain the original income and be required to do so. In other words, the question to be answered first of all is whether the man's loss of income is recoverable. In addition, the court notes that in this context it concerns the question whether the man can reasonably be considered able to regain the (original) income. Only if that question is answered in the negative and the court finds that the loss of income of the man is not recoverable, the question must be answered whether this is irreparable for recoverable loss of income.

It is up to the man to argue in this regard and, where necessary - to prove - if disputed by the woman - that his loss of income is not amenable to recovery. Now that the man has stated that his income from paid employment must be taken into account and, as the court understands, also means that his loss of income cannot be repaired, the man must then substantiate his statement. In the court's opinion, the man failed to do this. In the first place, the man has not substantiated that his companies suffered such a loss that he had to stop those companies. In addition, the man failed to provide information on how the shares were transferred in the companies. In view of the woman's assertions that the husband had no need whatsoever to dispose of the enterprises and - as she has put forward at the hearing - the question remains whether the husband actually no longer generates income from his enterprises, it must have been in the man's way to substantiate his propositions. In the absence of supporting documents, it has not become clear to the court why the man had to transfer the activities within [name of company 1], why the shares of [name of company 2] were sold for € 1 and how this sale went. It has in no way been established that it was necessary for the man to stop these businesses. The man has thus insufficiently substantiated his statements. In view of this, in the opinion of the court, it cannot be established that there is actually loss of income on the part of the man, nor that the loss of income alleged by the man is irreparable.

On the basis of the foregoing, the court is of the opinion that there is a culpable loss of income on the part of the man, which is also recoverable.

The court will therefore assume a notional income of € 85,000 gross per year. The woman has stated that the man can generate this amount as income from his businesses. In support of her statement, she has submitted a statement from her accountant. The man has not, or at least insufficiently substantiated, the aforementioned amount. This implies that the accountant's statement submitted by the woman in court is the only starting point for determining the man's fictitious income, assuming that he could have generated income from his companies. Moreover, what the (accountant of) the woman has stated about the amount of income to be generated is not implausible to the court, so that the court will use the aforementioned fictitious income for determining the man's ability to pay.

Taking into account the general tax credit and the employed person's tax credit, the court's calculation results in an NBI of the man of € 4,339 per month.

The man has stated that when calculating his ability to pay, account must be taken of repayments on various debts totaling € 400 per month. According to the man, these debts arose during the marriage. The woman has stated that these debts should not be taken into account now that these are company debts.

The court is of the opinion that the man's debts are insufficiently substantiated with documents and that it has not been shown that the man actually repays these debts. When calculating the man's ability to pay, the court therefore does not take into account a monthly payment on debts.

The woman has stated that the flat-rate housing costs should not be taken into account when calculating the man's ability to pay. The man lives with his mother, so he has no housing costs, according to the woman. The man has stated that he lives only temporarily with his mother and that he wants to look for a house of his own.

The court considers that it turned out that the man lives temporarily with his mother. However, the court is of the opinion that the man should also be able to have his own home. In view of this, the court does take the fixed housing costs into account when calculating the man's ability to pay.

In view of the foregoing, in line with the Treme Report of 2020, the court will determine the man's ability to pay using the formula 70% [NBI - (0.3 x NBI + 975)]. With an NBI of € 4,339 this results in a man's ability to pay (rounded) € 1,443 per month.

Care discount

The woman has stated that [minor 1] and [minor 2] have no contact with the man. According to the woman, a care discount should therefore not be assumed. Now that this has not been disputed by the man, the court does not assume a care discount.

4 Conclusion

The carrying capacity of the woman is € 50 per month. The carrying capacity of the man is € 1,443 per month. The joint capacity of the parents is therefore € 1,493 per month. They have insufficient capacity to meet the full needs of the children and young adults of a total of € 2,504 per month (€ 571 + € 571 + € 671 + € 691). Now that the parents do not have sufficient capacity to meet the full needs of the children and young adults and the care discount is not taken into account, the man must use his full capacity for child maintenance and maintenance for the young adults. Therefore, part of the total needs of the children and young adults, a portion of € 1,443 per month is borne by the man. The court will determine the same amount for every minor and young adult. This means that the man has to pay € 360 per month per minor child, and € 360 per month per young adult (€ 1,443 divided by four).

starting date

Now that the man is already paying an amount of child maintenance and maintenance for the young adults, the court considers it reasonable to set the starting date on March 17, 2020, which is the date of the decision.

Attaching the ability to calculate maintenance

For the purpose of child maintenance, the court has made calculations of the capacity of the man and the woman. These calculations are attached to this Decision and form an integral part thereof.

Partner maintenance

When calculating child maintenance and maintenance for young adults, the court has found that the parties together do not have sufficient capacity to meet the full needs of the children and young adults. It follows that the husband also has insufficient capacity to pay spousal maintenance to the wife. The court therefore rejects the woman's request to establish spousal maintenance.

The settlement of the prenuptial agreement

The husband and wife are married under marital conditions. The prenuptial agreement states that the spouses are married to the exclusion of any community of property. In addition, it is stated: “The spouses undertake to offset between each of their calendar years what is left of their income (…) after deduction of what has been spent as costs of the joint household (…).” It also includes: “On the in the event of divorce (…), the spouses' pension rights accrued during marriage will be subject to the provisions of the Equalization of Pension Rights in Divorce Act. ”

Reference date

The court finds that the reference date is 1 May 2018, which is the date of submission of the request for divorce.

Ingredients

In this procedure, the following items can be divided or settled by the woman and the man:

house in [postcode] [place of residence] at [address marital home] and the mortgage resting on it at [name of mortgage lender] with numbers [mortgage no. 1] and [mortgage no. 2] and the mortgage with [name of company 1];

capital policies with [insurance company] with number [policy no.];

shares in [name of company 1] and [name of company 2];

children's savings;

household effects;

boat Zodiac and boat Rancraft with trailer;

car BMW with registration [registration].

The court notes that it was apparent at the hearing that it has been established between the parties that the mortgage with [name of mortgage provider], the mortgage with [name of company 1] and the capital policies with [insurance company] are in the name of both parties, so that with regard to this components are simple communities between parties.

Ad a) the matrimonial home with mortgage

The man has primarily stated that the full value of the home must be assigned to him. The value of the house is in fact almost entirely formed by means of wealth brought in by the man or by wealth acquired under gifts. In the alternative, the man has stated that the house belongs to the amount to be settled, now that the house has been paid out of saved income. The house must be settled or distributed. The man has further stated that it has been established that the mortgage on the house has been repaid. Now that the man was always the breadwinner, these repayments must have taken place from his income, according to the man.

The woman has stated that the house belongs to her private assets. The house was jointly purchased by the parties at the time. Later, a deed of distribution was drawn up in which the house was registered in the woman's name and which included the obligation that the woman take on the mortgage debt. The man has not demonstrated that the mortgage was repaid from saved income. Even if it turns out that the mortgage has been paid off from saved income, there is a natural commitment under Article 1: 141 paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code, according to the woman. It was the intention of the man to pay off the mortgage on behalf of the woman. The man knew that the house belonged to the private property of the woman.

The court considers that the marital home was registered in the woman's name by notarial deed of [date] 2010. In addition, it is stated that the woman would take on the mortgage debt of NLG 500,000 at the time. The court finds that the marital home - now that it is in the name of the woman - belongs to the private property of the woman. Now that the parties apparently have not made any other agreements about this, it follows that the house does not belong to the capital to be settled.

With regard to mortgages on the home, the court has found that the original mortgage on the home of NLG 500,000 has been transferred and that the new mortgages are in the name of both parties. Therefore, with regard to the current mortgages at [name of mortgage lender] and at [name of company 1], there is a simple community. With regard to the mortgage with [name of mortgage provider], the court considers that the man has not demonstrated and substantiated that he repaid this from his private assets. In addition, the court has not found that the man received donations and if so, for what amounts he received donations. Nor has it been established that the man repaid the mortgage with these possible donations. The man has insufficiently substantiated his statements about this. In view of this, the court assumes that the repayments on the mortgage at [name of mortgage provider] have always been made from the family income that the parties had. Contrary to the husband's assertion, the husband does not have a claim on the wife now that the repayments are deemed to have been paid out of the regular family income. On the basis of the above, the court is of the opinion that the entire equity of the house belongs to the woman.

In view of the above, the court finds that the house is owned by the woman and that there is nothing to settle with regard to the mortgage. In addition, in view of the agreement between the parties that the woman would take on the mortgage debt when assigning the house to her, the court determines that the woman must provide the mortgage with [name of mortgage lender] with numbers [mortgage no. 1] and [mortgage no. 2] and takes over the mortgage at [name of company 1], upon discharge of the man from joint and several liability, without settlement with the man. In addition, the court determines that if the woman fails to release the man from joint and several liability, the woman is fully liable for the mortgage debts.

With regard to the mortgage interest deduction, the court determines that the amounts received by the parties until 1 May 2018, being the reference date, must be divided in half. Insofar as the man has still received the mortgage interest deduction for the marital home after the reference date of 1 May 2018, the court determines that the man must repay these amounts to the woman. It also follows that all costs incurred for the matrimonial home (municipal taxes / mortgage / VVE) must be shared by the parties until the reference date of 1 May 2018. After the reference date of 1 May 2018, these costs will be borne by the woman.

Ad b) the capital policies

At the hearing, both parties stated that the capital policies at [insurance company] as simple communities are yet to be divided in halves. These policies are in the name of both parties. The court determines that the policies are allocated to the woman, whereby the woman must pay half of the value of the policies to the man as of the reference date of 1 May 2018. The court also stipulates that - insofar as the man has no longer paid a premium for these policies until the reference date of 1 May 2018 - he must pay half of these premiums to the woman.

Re c) the shares in [name of company 1] and [name of company 2]

It has been established between the parties that (the shares in the capital of) [name of company 1] and [name of company 2] are in the name of the man.

The man has stated that the shares in both companies are not eligible for distribution or set-off. According to the man, the shares [name of company 1] and [name of company 2] stem from the assets he already had before marriage. This is evidenced by the statement of returns attached to the prenuptial agreement, the man said.

The man has stated that both companies went downhill after the previous session. With regard to [name of company 1] this was because the woman no longer did the administration for the company and because a competitor was added. For this reason, the activities of [name of company 1] have been transferred. A number of debts have still remained in [name of company 1]. The man has stated that he has sold the shares of [name of company 2] for € 1, to prevent the loss from increasing even further. There were significant losses. Furthermore, the man has stated that it is not necessary to appraise the companies. This creates unnecessary costs and the man does not have the money for this.

The woman has stated that the husband must reimburse half of the value of the shares of [name of company 1] and [name of company 2] as of the reference date. According to the woman, the shares belong to the assets to be settled. The man has not shown that the companies are a continuation of his former company, nor that the shares of both companies are financed from his private assets. The woman has stated that the shares in both companies are fully financed with deductible income. After disputing by the woman, the man has not substantiated his statements further.

Now that the man has failed to make any statements about the value of the companies as of the reference date, the woman has asked an accountant for advice. In the absence of complete information about the companies, the auditor made estimates of the value of the shares of both companies as of the reference date.

The court considers the following in this respect. It has been established between the parties that the shares [name of company 1] and [name of company 2] are in the name of the man and are therefore owned by the man. The court is of the opinion that (the shares in) both companies are part of the assets to be settled. The court considers it important that the man failed to demonstrate and substantiate that this would be different. The man has in no way shown that the shares of [name of company 1] and [name of company 2] were financed with money from the companies that the man owned before marriage. In view of this, the court therefore assumes that the shares in [name of company 1] and [name of company 2] are financed with the family income. Therefore, the court is of the opinion that the value of the shares of both companies must be settled as of the reference date of 1 May 2018.

With regard to the value of the shares of [name of company 1] and [name of company 2], the court considers that, based on the documents submitted by the parties, there is insufficient to determine the value as of 1 May 2018. After the previous hearing, the court gave the parties the opportunity to engage an expert to determine the value of the shares. The man would take the initiative and also bear the costs. Afterwards it turned out that the man did request a quote for an appraisal of value, but that he waived an assignment because of the costs. Even after discussing the importance of an expert valuation at the hearing on February 11, 2020, the man has indicated that he does not want this because it will cost too much money. In view of this, the court considers that the advice that the woman has obtained from an accountant is the only starting point for determining the value of the companies. Based on this advice, the woman has set values ​​for the shares. In the absence of further information or a substantiated dispute on the part of the man, the court will take the auditor's estimates as a starting point.

In addition, insofar as the woman stated at the hearing with regard to the advice of the accountant that these valuations have taken into account repayment of the debts, but that this has not happened, the value of the companies according to the woman should be set higher, the court will not attach any consequences - insofar as this is already the case - now that the woman has not stated what that higher value is.

The document submitted by the woman's accountant refers to a value of the shares in [name of company 1] of € 216,000 as of 1 January 2018 and a value of € 136,000 as of 31 December 2018. This is according to the accountant an indicative value of the shares, taking into account a substantial interest claim of 25%. Now that the reference date has been set on 1 May 2018, the court calculates the value of the shares as of the reference date pro rata. In 2018, the value was reduced by € 80,000. On 1 May 2018, a third of the current year had passed, so that the court will take into account a third of the aforementioned write-down, being € 26,667. On 1 May 2018, the court sets the value of the shares at € 189,333. In view of this, the court will determine that the husband must reimburse half of this value, namely € 94,666, in the context of the set-off to the wife.

With regard to [name of company 2], the court finds that it has remained completely unclear why the man sold the shares for € 1. The story behind the sale of these shares is missing and the man has not made clear how this sale went. No notarial deeds or other comparable documents of the sale have been submitted by the man, nor have agreements been submitted from which, without further explanation - which could also not be given at the hearing - shows which transactions have taken place. In view of this, for the valuation as of the reference date of 1 May 2018, the court once again uses the document submitted by the accountant submitted by the woman. In this, the accountant estimates the value of the shares of [name of company 2] at € 278,000. According to the accountant, this is an indicative value of the shares, taking into account a substantial interest claim of 25%. The court does not consider this value implausible in advance, and in the absence of other (substantiated) statements by the parties, the court assumes this value. The court determines that the husband must reimburse half of this value, namely € 139,000, to the wife.

Ad d) the children's savings

The man admitted at the hearing that he took the savings from the children's accounts. In accordance with what the man stated at the hearing, the court determines that the man will ensure that this savings is refunded.

Ad e) the household effects

At the hearing, both parties stated that the contents should be divided by halves. The court will decide accordingly.

Ad f) the boats

The parties agree that the boats are in the man's name and that the man should pay half of the value of the boats to the woman. However, the parties disagree on the value of both boats. The court thus determines that the man owns the Zodiac and the Rancraft with trailer and determines that the boats must be valued, after which the man must serve half of the value of both boats to the woman as of the reference date of 1 May 2018. to reimburse.

Ad g) the BMW

The parties agree that the car is in the name of the man and that the man should pay half of the value of the car to the woman. However, the parties differ on the value of the car. In view of this, the court has determined the value of the car on the basis of the ANWB price list, with 410,000 kilometers on the clock, at a replacement value of € 5,550. The court will determine that the man must reimburse € 2,775 to the woman, ie half of the value.

Pension equalization

With regard to the accrued pensions, the court determines that, in accordance with what is included in the prenuptial agreement, parties must proceed to the statutory equalization of pensions as provided in Section 1: 155 of the Dutch Civil Code and the equalization of pension rights in the event of divorce. The court assumes that the parties will exchange relevant information for this purpose.

Lifting of the precautionary attachment

Pursuant to Article 705, paragraph 2, of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv), a precautionary attachment is lifted if, among other things, the inadequacy of the right invoked by the attaching party or the unnecessary nature of the attachment is found to be summary. According to settled case-law, it is up to the person who seeks the lifting of the protective attachment to demonstrate that the claim alleged by the attaching party is unsound or that the attachment cannot be continued for other reasons.

Now that it follows from the above that it is not the man who has a claim on the woman, but the woman has a claim on the man, the court determines that the attachment on the house will be lifted.

5 Decision
The court:

*

determines the maintenance to be paid by the man as of March 17, 2020 for the young adults:

[name of young adult 2, full name], born on [date of birth] 2002 in [place of birth], and

[young adult 1 name in full], born on [day of birth] in [place of birth],

at € 360 per young adult per month, each time to be paid in advance to the young adults;

*

determines the maintenance to be paid by the man as of March 17, 2020 for the minors:

[name of minor 1, in full], born on [date of birth] 2008 in [place of birth], and

[name of minor 2, in full], born on [date of birth] in [place of birth],

at € 360 per month per child, from now on always to be paid in advance to the woman;

*

notes the settlement of the prenuptial agreement and the distribution of the simple communities as follows:

notes that the woman owns the house in [postcode] [place of residence] at [address of marital home];

determines that the woman the mortgage at [name mortgage lender] with numbers [mortgage no. 1] and [mortgage no. 2] and take over the mortgage on [name of company 1], whereby the man is released from joint and several liability, without settling with the man and that the woman, if she fails to get the man fired from the joint and several liability for the mortgage debts, will be fully liable for the mortgage debts;

provides that the amounts that the parties have received with regard to the mortgage interest deduction must be divided into halves until 1 May 2018 and that - insofar as the man still received the mortgage interest deduction for the marital home after the reference date of 1 May 2018 - must repay these amounts to the woman;

stipulates that all costs associated with the matrimonial home (municipal taxes / mortgage / VVE) must be shared by the parties until 1 May 2018 and that from 1 May 2018 these costs will be borne by the woman and that the parties amount to each other have to settle too much or too little with each other;

provides that the capital policies with [insurance company] with number [policy no.] are allocated to the woman, whereby the woman must pay half of the value of the policies to the man as of the reference date of 1 May 2018 and where - insofar as the man until the reference date of 1 May 2018 no longer paid any premium for these policies - he must pay half of these premiums to the woman;

notes that the man owns / was the owner of the shares in [name of company 1] and [name of company 2];

stipulates that the husband must reimburse half of the value of the shares of [name of company 1] to the woman as of the reference date of 1 May 2018, namely € 94,666;

stipulates that the husband must reimburse half of the value of the shares of [name of company 2] to the woman as of the reference date of 1 May 2018, namely € 139,000;

stipulates that the husband must return the savings of the four children to the children's savings accounts;

stipulates that the household contents must be divided by halves by mutual agreement;

notes that the man owns the Zodiac and the Rancraft with trailer;

stipulates that the Zodiac and the Rancraft must be valued with a trailer and that the man must reimburse half of the value of both boats to the woman as of the reference date of 1 May 2018;

notes that the man owns the BMW car with registration number [registration];

provides that the husband must reimburse € 2,775 to the wife, ie half the value of the BMW car;

*

stipulates that the husband and wife proceed to statutory pension equalization such as

determined in Article 1: 155 of the Dutch Civil Code and in the Act on equalization of pension rights in case of divorce;

*

levies on the attachment at the request of the husband and charged to the wife the property in [postcode] [place of residence] to [address marital home];

*

declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

*

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. I. Zetstra, Y.C. Bours and P. van der Zanden, judges, also children's judges, assisted by mr. L. Lagerwerf as registrar, and pronounced in open court on March 17, 2020.