Pronunciation


COURT OF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court 200.262.372 / 01

(case number court of the Northern Netherlands C / 17/161093 / FA RK 18/632)

order of March 10, 2020

on

[applicant],

residing in [A], applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the man,

lawyer: E. Gürcan, Arnhem,

and

[defendant],

living at a secret address,

defendant on appeal,

further to be called: the woman,

lawyer: mr. F. Gosselaar in Winschoten.

1 Proceedings
For the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of 4 April 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

 The appeal proceedings
2.1
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

- the notice of appeal with production (s), received on 1 July 2019;

- the defense with production (s);

- a journal message from Mr. Gürcan of August 14, 2019 with production (s).

2.2
The oral hearing took place on January 13, 2020. The man appeared in person, assisted by his lawyer. Mr. Gosselaar has appeared on behalf of the woman.

2.3
On February 4, 2020, the man, through the intervention of his lawyer, submitted a request for the challenge of mrs. I.A. Vermeulen and J.D.S.L. Bosch. By decision of the challenge chamber of March 3, 2020, the court declared the man inadmissible in his request for challenge.

2 Facts
3.1
Parties were married [in] 2017 in [B] in the general community of property.

3.2
The husband and wife are the parents of:

- the minor [the minor1], born [in] 2012;

- the minor [the minor2], born [in] 2017.

They are both placed away from home in a foster home.

3.3
In a petition filed on May 14, 2018, the woman requested, among other things, the divorce between the parties.

3.4
By order of April 4, 2019, the court pronounced divorce between the parties.

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1
The man appealed against the contested decision with one complaint. This complaint concerns the divorce pronounced by the court. The husband requests the court to annul the contested decision and to give a new judgment, rejecting the woman's preliminary divorce application.

4.2
The woman defends and requests that the man in the appeal be declared inadmissible by ratifying the decision of 4 April 2019 and to order the man to pay the costs of the proceedings.

4 Reasons of the Decision
5.1
It is disputed between the parties whether the divorce can be pronounced.

5.2
Pursuant to Section 1: 151 of the Dutch Civil Code, divorce is pronounced at the request of one of the spouses, if the marriage has been permanently disrupted. The wife argues that marriage has been permanently disrupted and the husband contradicts that.

5.3
Marriage is "permanently disrupted" if the continuation of society has become unbearable, without any prospect of restoration of proper marital relationships. Whether there is permanent disruption must be assessed according to the time of the judgment, or to the present.

5.4
The submitted OTS plan of October 8, 2018, which was brought into question as production 2 by the man, shows that he and the woman entered into a relationship on July 11, 2017, and that they were married [in] 2017. On August 31, 2017, the woman indicated that she did not want to continue with the man and subsequently left the house. At the hearing, the man stated that he and the woman lived together for a total of eight days. Since the woman left the man, he has not known where she is staying and has no longer had any contact with her. The man has indicated that the woman does not want to communicate with him. The woman now has a new partner.

5.5
The man has argued that he does not know why the woman left him, but not decisive for the divorce petition is how the permanent disruption arose, but the question whether there is a permanent disruption.

5.6
The court considers that it follows from the above that the parties have not had contact with each other for nearly 2.5 years. The court considers this to be a serious indication of the lasting disruption of the marriage of parties.

The husband has indicated that his relationship with the woman has been out before and that the woman had other partners both before and during the marriage, but that she always returned to the man. For that reason, according to the man, there is no question of a definitive end of the relationship between the parties; the man expects the woman to retrace her steps. However, the court finds that there is no indication that the woman wants to restore the relationship with the man. On the contrary, it is clear from the woman's preliminary application and her defense on appeal that she persists in her view that marriage to the man is definitely over. The court also regards this as a serious indication that the parties' marriages have been permanently disrupted.

The man has argued that because of her addiction problems, psychological problems and an intellectual disability, the woman does not know what she is doing and that the man wants to help her to see that she is not making the right choice. Insofar as the man means by this that the woman has not been able to determine her will and to understand the meaning of it with regard to the filing of a divorce petition, what the man has argued cannot bear that conclusion. If the man intended something else, this does not lead to a different decision by the court.

5.7
In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal comes to the conclusion that the marriage of the parties has been permanently disrupted. The court will therefore confirm the pronounced divorce between them. The fact that the husband wants to help the woman and take his responsibility is praiseworthy, but it is up to the woman to want and accept that help, and is no reason to reject the requested divorce.

The process costs

5.8
The woman requests that the man be ordered to pay the costs of these proceedings. The court will compensate the costs of the appeal on appeal, now that the parties are former spouses. The court does not consider any terms available to deviate from the starting point.

5 Decision
The court, which has the appeal:

ratifies the decision of the District of the Northern Netherlands, location Leeuwarden, of April 4, 2019;

compensates the costs of the appeal to the extent that each party is to bear its own costs.

This decision was made by mrs. I.A. Vermeulen, J.D.S.L. Bosch, and M.C. van Woudenberg, assisted by mr. E.L.K. Bijma as Registrar, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the Registrar on March 10, 2020.