Pronunciation


Civil matters for 2020 Judgment no .:

Registration numbers: CUR201902296 - CUR2019H00410

Verdict: March 10, 2020

COMMON COURT OF JUSTICE

from Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten and

from Bonaire, St. Eustatius and Saba

B E S L I S S I N G

in the case of:

[APPLIANT],

residing in [place of residence],

original complainant,

now appellant,

authorized representative: mr. E.S. Rosario,

against

[Notary],

established in [location] Curaçao as a notary,

originally defendant,

currently intimidated,

litigating in person.

The parties are hereinafter referred to as [appellant] and the notary.

1 Proceedings
1.1
[Appellant] appealed against the decision of the Chamber of Supervision for the notarial profession (hereinafter: the Chamber) of the decision of 11 November 2019 between the parties by appeal, with productions received at the Registry. content of that decision counts as inserted here.

1.2
The notary did not file a statement of defense.

1.3
The oral hearing, of which written notes were made, took place on 28 January 2020. [Appellant] appeared at the aforementioned authorized representative. The notary appeared in person. The authorized representative of [appellant] explained the position of [appellant] orally. The notary has presented an oral defense.

1.4
Subsequently, a decision was requested and determined to date.

2 Facts
2.1
Mr. [testator 1] (hereinafter: testator 1) was married in general community of property to [testator 2] (hereafter: testator 2), who was dissolved on [date] 2001 by divorce. The dissolved marriage community has remained undivided. Testator 2 died on [date] 2013 and testator 1 died on [date] 2016.

2.2
Four children were born from the marriage of testator 1 and testator 2: [brother 1 of appellant], [brother 2 of appellant], [sister of appellant] and [appellant]. On [date] 2016, testator 1 made a will before the notary, in which he appointed his four children as heirs. [appellant's sister] has been appointed as executor of his estate.

2.3
By order of 21 November 2018 from the Rotterdam District Court, mr. B.H. Bergsma appointed as liquidator of the estate of testator 2. In a letter dated 6 December 2018, she informed the heirs and the notary that the estate of testator 2 must be settled with her cooperation.

2.4
In response to a petition filed by the executor of the estate of testator 1, the General Court of First Instance of Curaçao authorized on 29 November 2018 by means of a stamp order the sale of two properties belonging to the estate of testator 1, located at the [ building 1] and [building 2] in Curaçao. These real estate are partly also part of the estate of testator 2.

2.5
On 9 January 2019, [appellant] lodged an appeal against the aforementioned decision of 29 November 2018. In summary, it based its decision on the fact that the settlement of the real estate requires the cooperation of the liquidator of the estate of testator 2 or of all heirs of testator 1 and that the executor of testator 1 is not authorized to liquidate the immovable property in the absence of such cooperation.

2.6 [
appellant] subsequently informed all civil-law notaries established on Curaçao - including the notary - by e-mail of 11 January 2019 of the appeal lodged by her against the stamp decision of 29 November 2018.

2.7
The appeal was heard on June 11, 2019. During that hearing, it appeared that the real estate to the [building 2] was sold to [buyer] on [date] 2019 and that the notary had passed the deed of sale without knowledge and cooperation. of the liquidator and [appellant].

2.8
Before [buyer] proceeded to purchase the property, he sent an email to the notary on 12 April 2019 asking who has been appointed as the liquidator of the estate of testator 2. By email of 14 May 2019, [ buyer] asked further questions to the notary. The notary did not respond to both messages.

3 Appeal
3.1
In the first instance, [appellant] filed a complaint with the House of Representatives. In summary, [appellant] stated in the complaint that the civil-law notary acted contrary to the care he must exercise as a civil-law notary by failing to cooperate with and notifying the liquidator of testator 2 of the deed of sale of the property to the [ address building 2]. The Chamber declared the complaint to be well-founded and imposed an unconditional fine of NAf 6,000.00 on the notary and suspended him for a period of two months, stipulating that this suspension will not be implemented unless the Chamber later decides otherwise on the grounds of that the notary within the probation period of one year is again guilty of an act as referred to in Article 57 paragraph 1 LNA (National Ordinance on Notary Office).

3.2
On appeal, [appellant] has sought to annul the contested decision and to do justice again, to remove the notary from office and to order him to pay material and non-material damages.

4 Reasons of the Decision
4.1
The appeal is directed against the imposed measures. In summary, [appellant] takes the view that the measures - in view of the seriousness of the shortcoming that the notary can be blamed for in combination with the previously founded complaints against the notary - are not sufficient and proportionate.

4.2
The Court considers as follows. Article 57 of the LNA stipulates that a notary who neglects his duties of office is guilty of any act or omission contrary to the care he ought to have with regard to the person on whose behalf he is acting, or of any act or omission that properly notary, the Court may, of its own motion or in response to a complaint in a reasoned decision, be subject to the following measures:

a. warning;

b. reprimand;

c. imposing a fine of not more than ten thousand guilders;

d. suspension in the performance of his duties for up to one year;

e. nomination for removal from office addressed to the Court of Justice.

4.3
The case is again fully heard and assessed on appeal. The duty of care of notaries implies that the notary is obliged to exercise the care that can be expected from a reasonably competent and reasonably acting colleague. All the circumstances of the specific case must always be taken into account in order to interpret this. The Court is of the opinion that the notary has seriously violated his duty of care in the present case. At least he should have known - certainly now that he has been explicitly pointed out by [appellant] and the liquidator of the estate of testator 2 - that for the sale of the real estate located in the estate of testator 1 to the [address pledge 2] the liquidator of the estate of testator 2 was required to cooperate because the immovable property in question was also part of the estate of testator 2. That the executor was authorized to sell this immovable property by a stamp order issued by the General Court not to that. The notary has his own responsibility in this. This is all the more true now that the notary knew or ought to have known that an appeal was under way against the stamp decision. Not checking, knowing all this, whether the notarial deed could be executed in this way, and not responding at least too late to reports from the liquidator, [appellant] and [buyer], the Court seriously considers the notary. This is evidence of lax behavior incompatible with the function of notary and the important role he plays in legal transactions. The notary must take into account the interests of all stakeholders involved in both estates and not only the interest of the executor of the estate of testator 1. Furthermore, for reasons of legal certainty, society must be able to rely on no deeds that are in violation of laws and regulations. The notary was unable to explain this careless act at the hearing, except that he had (too) many clients at the time and a (too) busy practice. If this were the case, those circumstances cannot justify or excuse his actions and / or omissions.

4.4
In view of the serious violation of his duty of care and thus of his official duty and the fact that in the recent past (2017 and 2019) complaints against the notary have also been declared well-founded for deception, failure to respond to requests and lax behavior, it is The Court is of the opinion that in this case an unconditional suspension of the notary in the performance of his duties for two months is appropriate. The NAf fine imposed at first instance. The court will uphold 6,000.00.

4.5
The complaints are therefore successful insofar as they are directed against the conditional suspension measure imposed by the House for a period of two months. The other complaints can not be discussed because, even if they were successful, this would not lead to a different decision. In view of the above, the contested decision must be partially annulled.

4.6
There is no place in this procedure for the compensation claimed by [appellant].

5 Decision

The Council:

quashes the decision appealed, to the extent that it provides that the suspension will not be enforced, unless the House may later determine otherwise on the grounds that the notary has again committed an offense under Article 57, first member, LNA, and the established probation period of one year, starting on the day that the decision becomes final;

further confirms the decision of the House of 11 November 2019;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. Th.G. Lautenbach, M.B. van den Enden and W.J. Geurts-de Veld, members of the Common Court of Justice of Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten and of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba and pronounced at the public hearing of the Court in Curaçao in the presence of the registrar on March 10, 2020.