Pronunciation


The Hague court
Multiple Room

Court number: FA RK 20-157

Case number: C / 09/587099

Date of decision: March 17, 2020

International child abduction
Decision on the request received on 17 January 2020 from:
[X],
the mother,

residing in Poland,

lawyer: mr. A.H. van Haga in The Hague.

Interested parties are:

[Y]
the father,

residing in [place of residence],

lawyer: mr. N.A. Boelhouwer in Tilburg.

1 Proceedings

The court has heard of the documents, including:

the petition, with attachments;

the report of the aforementioned special receiver of 21 February 2020;

the defense, with attachments;

the F9 form of 2 March 2020, with attachments, from the mother's side;

the F9 form of 2 March 2020, with attachments, from the father's side.

The case was heard at the hearing of this court on 4 February 2020. The following appeared: the mother, assisted by her lawyer and an interpreter, Ms [name 1], and the father, assisted by his lawyer and Mr [name 2], who translated for the father, and on behalf of the Council for Child Protection Ms [name 3]. This concerned a director's meeting with a view to cross-border mediation in international child abduction cases, with the judge hearing the case, also the juvenile judge, mr. H. Dragtsma. The hearing at the hearing was adjourned.

Parties have been given the opportunity to follow a cross-border mediation process, facilitated by the Mediation Bureau of the International Child Abduction Center, to try to reach an amicable settlement. The parties have not made use of this for reasons of their own.

By order of February 6, 2020, drs. J.L. van Wesemael-Smit appointed as special curator for the minor [name of minor] The special receiver has been asked to answer the following questions:

What does the minor himself say about a possible stay in Poland and a possible stay in the Netherlands?

To what extent does the minor seem to be able to express himself freely?

To what extent does the minor seem to have an overview of the consequences of a stay in Poland or a stay in the Netherlands?

Does the minor want to speak to the judge (s) and if so, does the minor want the special curator to be present?

Have any details emerged that are important for the decisions to be taken?

The minor [first name minor] was heard in council chamber on 3 March 2020 in the presence of the special curator and the interpreter, Mrs. [name 1].

On 3 March 2020, the hearing at the plenary session continued. Hereby appeared:

- the mother, assisted by her lawyer and by an interpreter, Mrs. [name 4];

- the father, assisted by his lawyer and an interpreter, Mrs. [name 5];

- the special curator drs. J.L. from Wesemael-Smit;

- on behalf of the Child Protection Board, Ms [name 3].

Pleading notes have been submitted on the part of the mother.

2 Appeal
In accordance with Article 13 of the International Child Abduction Implementation Act (hereinafter: the Implementation Act), the mother has requested that the immediate return of [first name minor] be ordered no later than 1 February 2020, at least the return of [first name minor] before a return by the order a date to be determined by a court of law in which the father must return him to the mother's primary address and, in the alternative, to Poland, or - if the father fails to return [first name minor] - to determine the date the father will hand him over to the mother with the necessary valid travel documents, so that she can take [the first minor] with her back to Poland, with the father being ordered to pay the real costs incurred by the mother, as well as the related costs. with the request for return, as far as possible with a declaration of enforceability with stock.

Furthermore, the mother has requested that provisional custody of [first name of minor] be pronounced whereby the court designates the authority charged with this provisional guardianship, under the condition that this provisional custody ends at the time of issue of [first name of minor] to the mother or the return of him to Poland, as far as possible with a declaration of enforceability in stock.

The father has put up a defense against the request of the mother, which defense will - as far as necessary - be discussed below.

3 Facts
The mother and father were married from [marriage date] 2011 to [divorce date] 2015.

They are the parents of [name of minor], born on [date of birth] 2012 in [place of birth], Germany.

Parties exercise joint authority over [first name minor].

The father, mother and [first name minor] are of Polish nationality.

The Polish Central Authority has turned to the Netherlands Central Authority (CA) on September 19, 2019. The case is registered with the CA under IKO nr. [Number].

4 Reasons of the Decision
The mother's request is based on the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction of 25 October 1980 (hereinafter: the Convention). The Netherlands and Poland are parties to the Treaty.

Pursuant to Article 11 paragraph 1 of the Implementation Act, the District Court of The Hague has jurisdiction to hear all matters relating to the forced delivery of an internationally kidnapped child to the person who has custody and the return of such a child over the Dutch border.

The Convention, to the extent relevant here, aims to ensure the prompt return of children who have been wrongfully transferred to or detained in a Contracting State. The Convention aims to restore the situation of the child as soon as possible immediately prior to the kidnapping or detention. A quick recovery from the situation prior to the kidnapping or detention is considered to limit the harmful effects of this on the child.

Illegal transfer or detention within the meaning of Article 3 of the Treaty

An unauthorized shipment or imprisonment within the meaning of the Convention applies when the shipment or failure to return occurs in breach of custody under the law of the state in which the child was habitually resident immediately before his shipment or detention. right alone or

was jointly exercised at the time of the transfer or failure to return, or would have been exercised had such an event not occurred (Article 3 of the Treaty).

It is not disputed that [first minor] before he went to the Netherlands had his habitual residence in Poland. Nor is it disputed that, under Polish law, the father and mother are jointly responsible for parental authority over [first name minor] and that this custody right was actually exercised jointly.

The question is whether the mother has granted permission for, or has resided in, the permanent residence of [first name minor] in the Netherlands, as a result of which the habitual residence of [first name minor] has been changed to the Netherlands.

The father puts forward the following in defense in this regard. He got advice from acquaintances who already lived in the Netherlands to live in the Netherlands. This would be good for the development of [first name minor] and for the father himself as an entrepreneur. The father went to the Netherlands with the mother's permission together with [first name minor] and they stay there from October 28, 2018. [first name minor] went back to the mother in Poland on December 20, 2018 because of Christmas. The agreement was, at least according to the father, that [first name minor] would return to the Netherlands on January 7, 2019, but the mother refused to let [first name minor] return. Ultimately, [first name of minor] did not return to the Netherlands until early April 2019. The father disputes the mother's claim that [the first name of a minor] was intended to return to the mother on 5 May 2019. That was not discussed between the parents, according to the father. [first name minor] went to school in the Netherlands and completed the 2018-2019 school year at primary school in the Netherlands. The 2019-2020 school year has also started in primary school in the Netherlands. The mother announced for the first time at the end of August 2019 that she wanted [the first name of a minor] to come back, according to the father.

The mother disputes the aforementioned statements of the father. It is true that [first name minor] went to the Netherlands with the father in October 2018, but this was for vacation. The intention was that [first name minor] return to the mother in Poland after the holiday. Because this did not happen, the mother and her sister traveled to the Netherlands to pick up [first name minor]. The father did not want to return [first name minor] and the parents then agreed as a compromise that [first name minor] would return to the mother in Poland by 20 December 2020. This has also happened. It was expressly not the intention that [first name minor] return to the Netherlands on January 7, 2019, according to the mother. [first name minor] went back to childcare in Poland in January 2019. On April 11, 2019, [first name minor] for Easter and the first weekend of May (due to the Polish national holidays on May 1 and 3) went to his father in the Netherlands. In connection with this holiday, the mother has deregistered [first name minor] for three weeks at the daycare. It was agreed that [first name minor] would return to his mother no later than 5 May 2019. The mother has repeatedly tried to contact the father to agree on the exact time of return. The father was not clear about the exact time of return and indicated that it would be “later”. Eventually, the father's mother was told that [minor's first name] would not return on May 5, 2019. Shortly afterwards, the mother contacted various authorities in Poland, such as the police and the court. She was then advised from the court in Poland to request the return of [first name minor]. The mother subsequently reported to the Polish CA in early August 2019. [first name minor] should have started at the primary school in [place] as of September 2019. The mother emphatically states that she has not given permission for the withholding of [first name minor] in the Netherlands. She has only given permission for a stay of [first name minor] with the father in the Netherlands, first in 2018 until just before Christmas and then in 2019 around Easter and no later than 5 May 2019. The mother has neither prior to the stay of [first name minor] with his father from April 11 or 12, 2019, nor subsequently gave permission to the father to have [first name minor] with him in the Netherlands longer than until May 5, 2019, according to the mother.

The court states first of all that it is assumed that resignation can take place in both an active and passive manner and follows the unauthorized withholding, while permission precedes that transfer or withholding. In view of this, the assessment of whether the mother has given her permission is discussed when determining the habitual residence of [first name minor] and the question arises whether there is resignation or consent to the stay on the ground for refusal under article 13, paragraph 1 sub. a of the Convention. The burden of proof that this ground for refusal arises rests on the father.

The court considers as follows. In any case, it is certain that [first name minor] usual residence was in Poland until October 2018. In October 2018, [first name minor] from Poland, where the father, mother and [first name minor] lived, went to the Netherlands with the father. Subsequently, [first minor name] returned to the mother just before Christmas in 2018. The parents disagree whether [first minor name] would return to the father on January 7, 2019, as he states. In view of the fact that the father has not substantiated his statement at all (with documents) and given the motivated defense of the mother, in which she has substantiated with documents that she has unsubscribed [first name minor] from the childcare of 1 November 2018 until the end of 2018 and that [first name of minor] started there again in early 2019, the court ignores that claim of the father. Subsequently, [first name minor] went back to the father in the Netherlands at the beginning of April 2019. The mother has given her permission for this. The mother has stated and substantiated (see, for example, the declaration of consent to travel with [first name minor]] that she saw permission for a stay of [first name minor] in the Netherlands in the period from 11 April to 5 May 2019. That she the father has subsequently given permission to settle in the Netherlands with the [first name of a minor] definitively, is disputed by the mother and, in the opinion of the court, the father has not substantiated it further. In the light of the dispute by the mother, the court has therefore found that it has not been established that the father has received permission from the mother for a permanent residence of [primary minor] in the Netherlands. Nor has it been established that she resides in the permanent residence of [first name minor] in the Netherlands. The father has not made any concrete statements that refer to the behavior of the mother that would indicate this.

In the opinion of the court, the factual conduct of the mother indicates that she did not give the father permission to settle in the Netherlands with [first name minor] and did not acquiesce in it either. For example, the mother has argued without contradiction that soon after she knew that [first name minor] would not return to her, she contacted various authorities in Poland, such as the court and the police. On the advice of the court, she made a report to the Polish CA in early August 2019, after which the Polish CA contacted the Dutch CA.

Therefore, the court is of the opinion that it was not the transfer, but the detention of [first name minor] in the Netherlands from 5 May 2019 that was in violation of the mother's right of custody.

On the basis of the foregoing, the court finds that the detention of [primary minor] in the Netherlands should be regarded as unauthorized within the meaning of Article 3 of the Treaty.

Immediate return within the meaning of Article 12 of the Treaty

Under Article 12 (1) of the Convention, the immediate return of a child is ordered when less than one year has elapsed between the transfer or non-return of a child and the time when the application is brought to court. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the said Article, the return of a child shall be ordered even if the one-year period has expired, unless it is demonstrated that the child is now rooted in his new environment.

The father states that [first name minor] has been in Dutch for more than one year. The mother defends. The court considers that, as stated above, the detention of [first name minor] in the Netherlands from 5 May 2019 was in violation of the mother's right of custody. Now that less than one year has elapsed between the detention of the [first name minor] in the Netherlands and the time of submission of the request, the court does not deal with the question whether [first name minor] is rooted in the Netherlands and must in principle to monitor the immediate return of [first name minor], unless there are one or more grounds for refusal as referred to in Article 13 of the Treaty.

Now that it has not become apparent that there is one of the grounds for refusal referred to in Article 13 of the Treaty - the father has not invoked this either - while less than a year has passed between the unauthorized detention of [first name minor] and the submission of the petition, pursuant to Article 12 paragraph 1 of the Convention, the immediate return of the [first name minor] must follow.

Pursuant to Article 13, paragraph 5, of the Implementation Act, any appeal shall suspend the enforcement of the order, unless the judge decides otherwise in the best interests of the child upon request or ex officio. The court considers it desirable that [first name minor] be able to await a possible appeal decision in the Netherlands and will reject the mother's request to declare the decision enforceable in stock. The court will order the return no later than April 3, 2020, being the third day after the expiry of the period within which an appeal can be lodged against this decision.

Method of return

The court will ignore the primary request of the mother to specifically order the return of [first name minor] to the mother's place of residence.

The court considers that the purpose of the Convention (and the Implementation Act) is that the child is returned to the country of origin so that further decisions about the whereabouts of the child can be taken if necessary. It is not the intention of the Convention to decide on the whereabouts of the child in a return procedure. The court therefore sees no reason to order the return to the mother's specific place of residence. The court will grant the mother's subsidiary request and order her to be returned to Poland.

Provisional guardianship

Now that [first name minor] has lived at at least four addresses in the past period, it was always unclear to the mother what the actual residence of [first name minor] was, and the mother has at least contact with [first name minor] and / or the father, does the mother see reason to request provisional custody of [first name minor]. The mother considers it a real risk and has good reason to fear that if the return is granted, the father will go into hiding with [first name minor] or leave for an address outside the Netherlands.

The father has motivated disputes about what the mother says. The father takes the position that there is no reason to pronounce the provisional guardianship.

The court will reject the mother's request to entrust an authority with provisional custody of [first name minor]. It has not been established by the court, from the documents submitted and what was discussed during the hearing, that on the basis of concrete facts and circumstances there is a danger that [first name minor] will be withdrawn from return. The father now has a house in Rijen, where he lives with [first name minor] and the father also has his work here and a new partner. It has not been shown that the father has plans to leave for another (unknown) address or abroad. The court also involved in its consideration that the Child Protection Board sees no reason to pronounce a provisional guardianship measure.

Litigation costs

The court will reject the mother's request to order the father under Article 26 paragraph 4 of the Convention to pay the costs incurred by her with regard to the return in the absence of (any) substantiation of those costs.

In view of the fact that this concerns proceedings of a family law nature, the court will compensate the legal costs as stated below.

Special curator

The court considers it in the interest of [first name minor] that the special guardian discusses the decision of the court (and possibly the decision of the Court of Appeal) with him. For the sake of completeness, the court notes that the appointment of the special receiver, insofar as an appeal is lodged against this decision, continues during the appeal procedure. If no appeal is lodged, the court will consider the activities of the special receiver for these proceedings to have ended one month after the date of this order.

5 Decision
The court:

orders the return of the minor:

- [name of minor] born on [date of birth] 2012 in [place of birth], Germany,

to Poland no later than April 3, 2020, where the father must return the minor to Poland and, if the father fails to return the minor to Poland, orders that the father deliver the minor to the mother with the necessary valid travel documents at the latest on 3 April 2020, so that the mother can bring the minor back to Poland by herself;

provides that each party bears its own legal costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested;

to the extent that no appeal is lodged against this decision, consider the activities of the special receiver in these proceedings with effect from

April 17, 2020 as discontinued.

This decision was made by mrs. I. Zetstra, J.M. Vink and M.S. Vonck, judges, also children's judges, assisted by mr. S.G.J. Declared as registrar, and delivered in open court on March 17, 2020.

An appeal may be brought against this decision, insofar as a final decision has been taken, within two weeks (Article 13 paragraph 7 of the International Child Abduction Implementation Act) after the day of the decision by submitting an appeal to the Registry of the Court of Appeal of The Hague. In case of appeal, the court hearing will - in principle - take place in the third or fourth week after this decision.
