Pronunciation


Civil matters for 2020 Judgment no .:

Registration numbers: CUR201701763 - CUR2018H00175

Judgment: April 14, 2020

COMMON COURT OF JUSTICE

from Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten and

from Bonaire, St. Eustatius and Saba

V O N N I S

in the case of:

[Appellant],

living in Curaçao,

originally defendant,

now appellant in the principal appeal,

respondents in the (conditional) incidental appeal,

agents: mrs. E.R. de Vries and H.M.Weijand,

against

[Bullied],

living in Curaçao,

prosecutor originally,

currently defendant in the principal appeal,

appellant in the (conditional) incidental appeal,

authorized representative: mr. S.E. Thomson.

The parties are hereinafter referred to as the woman and the man.

1 Proceedings
1.1
By appeal of 18 June 2018, the woman appealed to the judgment of the General Court of First Instance of Curaçao (hereinafter: the General Court), which was pronounced between the parties and that was pronounced on 21 May 2018.

1.2
In a statement of appeal, with productions, that was received on 30 July 2018, the woman raised and explained complaints against the verdict. Its claim is that the Court should set aside the judgment and still dismiss the man's claims in full, ordering the man to refund all the money paid by the woman under the contested judgment and, in addition, to condemn the man in legal costs in both instances, plus statutory interest in the event of late payment.

1.3
By response, with productions, the man contested the grievances. His claim is that the Court should uphold the contested judgment, ordering the woman to pay the costs of the appeal.

1.4
In the same statement, the man has conditionally lodged an appeal with a complaint that seeks to prevent the man from relinquishing statements and defenses and to make him less of the woman's appeal.

1.5
In a response in the cross-appeal, the woman concluded that the Court will dismiss the man's claim in the cross-appeal and order him to pay the costs of that appeal.

1.6
Parties submitted arguments for pleadings on the day specified earlier.

1.7
Judgment has been requested and specified to date.

2 Facts
2.1
On appeal, the following facts can be assumed (see also under 2.1 to 2.9 of the award judgment).

2.1.1
In 2006, the parties entered into an affective relationship and, together with the woman of the woman from a previous marriage, they lived together in the house at the [address] in Curaçao that is owned by the woman (hereinafter also: the house). . At that time, the man had his own (purchase) house at [address 2] in Curaçao.

2.1.2
On [date] 2007, parties in Curaçao were married under prenuptial agreements, which meant, among other things, that there would be no form of matrimonial property between them (Article 1) and that the household costs - to be understood in a broad sense - would be borne by both spouses come, in proportion to each other's net income, excluding the possibility of recovering a contribution that exceeds this obligation (Articles 7 and 8).

2.1.3
After their marriage, parties continued to live in the house. On [date] 2008 they had a son.

2.1.4
In August 2008 the man sold his own house that was rented out for an amount of NAf 440,000. The net sales proceeds amounted to NAf 180,890.20.

2.1.5
At the end of 2008 the loan in euros with a mortgage on the house, which was still in the name of the wife and her ex-husband, was transferred to a loan in Dutch Antillean guilders in the name of the parties, again with the house as mortgage security .

2.1.6
In the period 2009-2010, the house was thoroughly renovated and renovated.

2.1.7
The marriage of the parties was dissolved on [date] 2016 by entering the divorce order of [date] 2016 in the registers of civil status. Parties have joint authority over their son; his primary residence is with the woman.

2.1.8
Part of the divorce decision is a divorce settlement of 28 May 2016 (hereinafter: the covenant) which, insofar as relevant here, includes:

“Article 1: with regard to the obligation to pay spousal maintenance

As of the date of the divorce decree, [the man] will meet [the woman], for a period of 2 years, a partner maintenance amounting to Naf. 1000.00 per month for the benefit of [the wife's] living, regardless of the circumstance that the party [appellant] was allowed to earn income from income from labor in the above-mentioned period. The parties agree that this clause cannot be changed on the grounds of a change of circumstances, it being understood that the partner's maintenance will lapse if [the woman] sells or rents her house [address] or if [the woman] is married. or living together in a sustainable way similar to a marriage. […]. ”

In addition, Article 5 states that the woman will take over the mortgage payments as of [date] 2016 and will endeavor to obtain the loan in her name and Article 6 states that the husband declares a claim of NAf 250,000 - 325,000 on the woman in respect of home improvements paid by him and that the man who will contest the claim that the woman contests.

2.1.9
After the relationship between the parties ended, the man left the house, the woman still lives there, with her two children.

2.1.10
As of [date] 2017, the man has stopped the monthly payment of the spousal maintenance. The woman then proceeded to take enforcement measures, after which the man started this procedure.

3 Appeal
2.2
The man claimed at first instance, after a reduction in the claim, that the General Court should be enforceable in case of stock:

the woman will order to pay to the man an amount of NAf 253,973.50 (renovation costs), plus statutory interest from 17 June 2016;

the woman will order to pay the man an amount of NAf 33,057.83 (conversion of Euro loan), plus statutory interest from 17 June 2016;

the woman will order to pay to the man an amount of NAf 1,143.00 (bailiff's costs) and all partner maintenance paid by the man to the woman of NAf 1,000.00 per month as of January 2017;

The woman will prohibit taking new enforcement measures with regard to spousal maintenance, under penalty of forfeiting a penalty of NAf 5,000 per day or part of the day that the woman violates this prohibition.

2.3
In the contested judgment, the General Court upheld the claims under a and b up to an amount of NAf 141,500.55, plus the statutory interest on it from 7 April 2017. To that end, the General Court ruled, in short, that it was not or insufficiently contested it is established that the man has made the payments referred to under a and b and that they have benefited the woman's property. Since, in the circumstances, half of the payments must be regarded as fulfilling a natural obligation, only the other half has the nominal right of compensation laid down in the case-law of the Supreme Court, according to the General Court. For the rest, the claims were rejected. The costs of the proceedings were compensated by the Court of First Instance as former spouses.

2.4
The man has resigned in partial rejection of his claims, on the understanding that in case the principal appeal succeeds, he relies on his assertion that there has been no satisfaction at all of a natural commitment.

2.5
The principal appeal of the woman serves to demonstrate that the man with the payments - insofar as these have already been made and should not be regarded as household costs - has complied not only half but fully with a natural obligation resting on him and that, more than the first judge has done, account must be taken of the benefits that the man of the payments has had.

2.6
Appeals may also be based on the amounts used by the General Court. The refurbishment costs of NAf 294,616.11 - and therefore the amount thereof (after deduction of the amount of NAf 40,642.61 that the woman has taken on her account) in court amount of NAf 253,973.50 - has been extensively and conclusively justified with receipts and partly substantiated with proofs of payment. The woman's defense on this point is gratuitous in that it does not make clear who has paid the vouchers - at least she was not - and for what other “project” the costs might have been incurred. The expenditure, even in the broad view that the prenuptial agreement prescribes, cannot be regarded as costs of the household, but as investments that lead to wealth creation. This also applies to the repayments on the mortgage; only the interest payments are costs of the household. For that reason - also in view of what the man has stated (uncontested) regarding the background of the Euro loan transfer - the repayment of NAf 25,000 can be considered as payments made by the man to the woman's assets. good ones have come. After all, the woman was freed from a loan with a high burden only in her name and a large debt incurred by the euro exchange rate, which was replaced by a lower loan on considerably more favorable terms in both names, as allocated to her in the divorce settlement. The parties must share the costs of the transfer (NAf 8,055.20). The man has not brought any objection against the decision of the General Court to halve again the part advanced by the man to the woman (NAf 4,027.60).

4 Reasons of the Decision

2.7
The extent to which the man can demand reimbursement of the amounts paid by him, up to their nominal value (pursuant to Article 20a National Ordinance Transitional Law New Civil Code, Article 1:87 of the Dutch Civil Code does not apply) must be assessed on the basis of the case-law on reimbursement rights for cold exclusion, such as the Supreme Court has formed in a series of judgments. See inter alia: HR June 12, 1987, NJ 1988/150 and ECLI: NL: HR: 1987: AC2558 (Kriek / Smit), HR December 4, 1987, NJ1998 / 610 and ECLI: NL: HR: 1987: AB8960 (clothing boxer) , HR September 15, 1995, NJ 1996/616 and ECLI: NL: HR: 1995: ZC1808 (Le Miralda), HR October 17, 1997, NJ 1998/692 and ECLI: N: HR: 1997: ZC2459, HR September 20, 2002, ECLI: NL: HR: 2002: AE4367 and HR October 1, 2004, NJ 2005/1 and ECLI: NL: HR: 2004: AO9558.

2.8
Since the husband has only submitted a conditional appeal against the judgment of the first judge, the correctness of that judgment need only be examined if the grievances of the woman are (partly) successful. Therefore, the Court will first assume that half of the payments made by the man should be considered as fulfilling a natural commitment. It will then be assessed whether, as the wife argues, there are reasons, in view of the case-law referred to above under 2.7, to limit the husband's entitlement to compensation further than the General Court has done.

2.9
Under the authority of that case-law, the circumstance that the man - a lawyer with over ten years of experience in 2009/2010 and informed by a notary - has made significant investments in a house that was in the wife's name, without hard (written) agreements about reimbursement and without changing the ascription, to be understood as an objective indication that he has thereby fulfilled a natural commitment to care for the woman. It should also be taken as an indication in this direction that the woman, unlike the man, was unable to make the payments for the renovation of the house and the transfer of the loan.

2.10
In addition to these indications, at the time of making the payments, there were other circumstances that should also be taken into account and which mainly point in a different direction. These are the following.

a. when the parties married, the woman was 36 years old; it was her second marriage, from the first marriage his son had been taken up in the household she had with the man;

b. the woman had a paid job at the start of the marriage; The parties have agreed that they would be temporary (the husband says for two years, the wife admitted this at the first instance hearing, but on appeal it refers to at least four; the later course of events is in line with the husband's position) stop working to care for the children, including the newborn son of parties; with her job, the woman earned less than the man, who, as a lawyer at a small private office, also had more prospects for (permanently) higher wages and wealth accumulation;

c. the house was not bought by the man or placed in the woman's name; it was an offering in marriage to the woman; the parties have chosen to live in this house for practical reasons. That this was done with a view to capital accumulation has not been stated or proved.

d. a mortgage rested on the house as security for a loan that led to a monthly cost of NAf 3,000 due to the sharp rise in the euro exchange rate;

e. the loan has been transferred to a joint venture; the remittance would result in the family's monthly expenses being significantly lower and mortgage debt reduced; the mortgage interest and part of the renovation costs were deductible;

f. the man paid the renovation and financing costs from the sale of his own house and the rest from his savings and with the help of a loan from his parents; here, therefore, the situation does not arise where the contribution from a much larger equity of the man has been paid. The man apparently (almost) put all his then wealth in the house;

g. the woman stated at the hearing at first instance that she never thought that the man's contributions were a gift; according to the man, she has told him more than once that other men would do that, but she knew he was not such a man. This was not or insufficiently contradicted by the woman.

2.11
In view of all these circumstances, considered in conjunction, it cannot be said that the husband - as the wife advocates - has fulfilled an urgent moral obligation that required him to have (almost) his entire equity fairly shortly after commencing marriage. invested in the renovation and refinancing of the woman's house with the aim that - in addition to the financial and practical benefits to be enjoyed together - the entire capital increase would benefit the woman. Parties were married two years earlier on a prenuptial agreement, also because of the fact that they both had their own house. The woman's view implies a correction to that choice that goes even further than what a community of goods (at that time) would have led to. The difference between the income (prospects) of the parties and the extent to which the man would de facto - as a breadwinner - benefit from the investments cannot justify accepting such an obligation.

2.12
It is clear that the husband made these investments primarily to improve the living situation of himself and his family and that care - through the formation of equity - of the wife was at most an additional goal. There are no reasons to assume that the husband with the payments intended to ensure that the wife could continue to live in this house at all times, even without the husband after a possible divorce, while retaining the entire (surplus) value. As the man has stated, a joint possession was assumed. These subjective intentions were, in the Court's opinion, also in line with what was then considered normal and appropriate in society's view when two economically independent partners married while retaining each other's wealth and they both contribute to a marital home , as the parties have done in this case: the woman by making her home available and the man by making the necessary investments. If, on the basis of those views, it is possible to conclude that there is any natural obligation to conclude, it does not - nor the reasonableness and fairness - further limit the right to reimbursement than the General Court has assumed.

2.13
Contrary to what the woman argues, the result that the woman should reimburse half of his investments to the husband does not currently lead either, given the developments in the approximately six years that elapsed between making the payments and the divorce. to unacceptable results. The marriage of the parties lasted nine years. During the marriage, the woman worked, although limited. After that, the woman was able to resume her work and she now earns an income of NAf 4,500 net, supplemented with NAf 1,350 child maintenance for her two children.

As a result of the investments made by the parties and advanced by the man, instead of an outdated house which, as the man has insufficiently contradicted, the woman was de facto flooded and with high monthly costs, a renovated house and a renovated mortgage loan and has benefited from the development in value which, it may be presumed to a significant extent as a result of those investments, led to a capital gain at the time of the divorce of approximately

NAf 320,000 (based on the 2014 appraisal report submitted by the man). If she paid the man the allocated NAf 141,500.55, there is still an equity of approximately NAf 180,000. It cannot be inferred from her claims that this advantage has been imposed on her in such a way that it should not play a role, and that there is no sufficiently focused offer of evidence.

2.14
On the other hand, it has not been shown that the husband built up such a large private wealth during marriage that it would be unacceptable by standards of reasonableness and fairness that he should not grant the woman full value and force her to be repaid. After the divorce, he bought a house for a purchase price of NAf 355,000, which he financed with loans from the bank and his father.

2.15
The fact that the woman will (presumably) have to sell the house because she no longer has any borrowing capacity does not lead to a different opinion. It is a regular occurrence that spouses have to sell the marital home when breaking up marriage and society because it is too expensive for each of them individually. If parties, such as both here, should be considered capable of finding suitable replacement accommodation with work and equity, this is tedious, perhaps drastic, but not unreasonably onerous. The fact that this is an affixed possession of the woman does not change the foregoing, the less that it is plausible that the costs would have grown above the woman without the financial contributions of the man.

2.16
There is no room for offsetting or deducting benefits enjoyed by the husband, not to mention that it is not clear on what basis that should be done (the article 6: 100 BW referred to by the wife is on this special compensation claim - which is no compensation from unjust enrichment includes - not applicable). Regarding these advantages, and the disadvantages as the woman apparently sees them, the following is considered.

2.17
If the parties were not married, the woman could not have rented out her house; it is even questionable whether she could have kept it up in view of the high burdens. To the extent that rental - without further investment - would have been possible and profitable if the parties had occupied the man's house, this could only be relevant if the man had rented out his house. He did not, except for a short period of time. After all, he sold the house and put the proceeds into the woman's house. Incidentally, the question arises whether, if the woman had received structural rental income, it should not have been regarded partly as income within the meaning of Article 7 of the prenuptial agreement.

2.18
Nor is it necessary to further investigate to what amounts the man has enjoyed tax benefits. The husband (even when the woman did have income) paid all household costs. The fact that the woman experienced the state of affairs after the renovation as scant does not mean that the man has failed in his obligations to contribute to the household with his net income. The tax advantages do not correspond to any disadvantage of the woman and her own investment is an increase in value in her house. Therefore, the fact that the man has kept the tax refunds in part or in whole himself cannot be a reason to further shorten his reimbursement entitlement, especially since he does not reclaim the repayments he paid on the joint mortgage loan.

2.19
The additional loan on 1 June 2010 of NAf 40,642.61 that the woman took over as part of a mortgage loan (which amounted to approximately NAf 256,000 after the increase, but which was subsequently repaid by the man until 1 February 2016), the man in deducted from his claim at first instance. Given the date and the description of the purpose of that loan, it is plausible that this amount was spent on the renovation and not, as the woman argues, added to the man's private assets. Furthermore, it is also irrelevant now that it has been established that up to an amount of NAf 294,616.11 in renovation costs have been incurred, which have been paid by the man.

2.20
The man's claim can therefore also be upheld on appeal up to the amount of NAf 141,500.55. The woman's grievances fail.

2.21
There are no complaints against the allocation of the statutory interest from April 7, 2017. Since the covenant and in any case since the contested judgment, the woman has also been able to take into account the payment obligation. If sale is necessary, it can be assumed that the man who is waiting or otherwise makes a payment arrangement.

2.22
The inspection requested by the woman will be rejected. The man sent further income data prior to the appeal appeal. The woman did not respond to this in substance, nor did she comment that, and explaining why, these documents are inadequate, so that her need for information can be considered to have been met. It should also be noted that if it turns out that the man has already built up a pension provision of some size, this is no reason for further reduction of his right to compensation.

2.23
The woman has not made a sufficiently specific offer of evidence regarding, in the light of the man's defense, sufficiently motivated statements that, if proven, could lead to a different judgment. Therefore, no evidence can be given.

2.24
The conclusion is that the principal appeal fails. The condition attached to the incidental appeal has not been met, so that it can be further discussed. The contested judgment must be confirmed, with - in view of the former marriage relationship between the parties - compensation of the costs of the proceedings in principal appeal.

5 Decision

The Council:

confirms the judgment appealed;

compensates the costs of proceedings in such a way that each party bears its own costs.

This judgment was rendered by mrs. M.W. Scholte, F.W.J. Meijer and J. de Boer members of the Common Court of Justice of Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten and of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba and pronounced at the public hearing of the Court in Curaçao in the presence of the registrar on April 14, 2020.