Pronunciation


SUPREME COURT OF THE NETHERLANDS

CIVIL ROOM

Number 18/04213

Date March 13, 2020

DECISION

In the case of

[the man], residing in [place of residence],

APPLICANT for cassation, defendant in the partially conditional incidental appeal,

hereafter: the man,

lawyer: J. van Duijvendijk-Brand,

against

[the woman], residing in [place of residence],

DEFENDANT in cassation, the applicant in the partly conditional cross-appeal in cassation,

hereafter: the woman,

lawyer: C.G.A. from Stratum.

1 Proceedings

For the course of the proceedings in factual bodies, the Supreme Court refers to:

orders in case C / 15/181934 / FA RK 11-1831 and C / 15/181983 / FA RK 11-1850 of the District Court of North Holland of 27 September 2011, 20 December 2011, 31 January 2012, 17 April 2012 and September 30, 2015;

the decisions and decision in the case 200.182.892 / 01 of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal of 8 November 2016, 1 August 2017, 3 July 2018 and 3 July 2018 (decision).

[the man] lodged an appeal in cassation against the decisions and decision of the court.

[the woman] has partially filed a cross-appeal in cassation. The cassation appeal and the defense, also containing partly conditional incidental appeal in cassation, are attached to this decision and form part thereof.

The parties have mutually lodged a defense to dismiss the appeal.

The Opinion of Advocate General M.L.C.C. In the principal appeal in cassation, Lückers seeks dismissal and in the occasional appeal in cassation for annulment and referral.

The lawyers of the parties responded to this conclusion in writing.

2 Facts
2.1.1
The following can be assumed in cassation

(i) The husband and wife were married on October 13, 1990. The prenuptial agreement agreed by them stipulates, as far as relevant, the following:

"Article 1

The spouses are married in a community of household effects; any other community of property is excluded between them. (…)

Article 6

Unless otherwise specified, spouses are obliged to compensate each other for what has been withdrawn from the property of one spouse for the benefit of the other spouse, to the amount of or to the value at the time of the withdrawal. These fees are immediately due and payable. (…)

Article 8

1. The costs of the joint household, including the costs of care and upbringing of the children born of the marriage, (…) shall be paid out of the net income of the spouses in proportion to that; (…)

2. Net income is understood to mean the income after deduction of the tax on income owed, national insurance contributions and other legal deductions or levies (…)

Article 1 1

For each calendar year, the spouses undertake to set off between themselves what is deducted from their net income within the meaning of Article 8, less that which has been spent on the joint household, in the sense that one spouse obtains a claim on the other spouse amounting to half of the remainder on his side as referred to above. (…) ”

(ii) The statement of income, which is part of the marriage contract, reads as follows:

“The woman proposes to marriage:

The equestrian business fully operated by it (...) with the associated real estate and movable property, cash, receivables and debts. Movable assets, cash, receivables and payables are the following:

(…)

Furthermore, the following debts:

A mortgage loan for the Westland Utrecht Hypotheekbank pro resto f 150,000;

A loan from [the mother of the woman] in the amount of NLG 60,000;

A loan from [the mother of the man] amounting to NLG 115,000. ”

(iii) The woman owns an immovable property (hereinafter: the immovable property). The woman's equestrian center is located there. On December 31, 2009, the immovable property also included a house (being the former matrimonial home) and a garage, including a studio home, in addition to commercial buildings.

(iv) In the period from October 13, 1990 (the marriage date) to June 26, 1997, an amount of NLG 60,000 (€ 27,227) was repaid on the debt to the mother of the woman referred to under (ii) above. , and an amount of (rounded) NLG 17,000 (€ 7,716) on the aforementioned debt under (ii) to the mother of the man, i.e. a total of € 34,943. Both loans were contracted by the woman before the marriage for the purchase and the alterations to the immovable property carried out before the marriage.

(v) In 1997, three mortgage loans were concluded with ABN AMRO, with which the mortgage loan from Westland Utrecht Hypotheekbank mentioned above under (ii) of NLG 150,000 (€ 68,067) and the remaining debt to the mother of the man of NLG 98,000 has been repaid. The mortgage loans at ABN AMRO are the following:

(1) NLG 200,000 (€ 90,756) Savings mortgage in the name of the man, the balance of which on 31 December 2009 amounted to € 43,672.

(2) NLG 200,000 (€ 90,756) co-growth mortgage in the name of the woman, to which is attached a 'co-growth free policy' in the name of the man and the woman, the balance of which on 31 December 2009 is € 12,929. - amounted to;

(3) NLG 100,000 (€ 45,378.) Interest-only mortgage in the woman's name.

(vi) During the marriage, the immovable property was rebuilt three times.

(vii) The man was employed by an employer until July 1, 2002. Since July 1, 2002, the man has been employed by a private company (hereinafter: the B.V.) founded on March 10, 1994, of which he is director / major shareholder. At the end of his employment with his employer, the man received compensation for loss of income, which he had deposited by that employer in the B.V. On the balance sheet of the B.V. as of December 31, 2009, a provision for standing rights obligations of € 74,427 was reserved for men.

(viii) In 2002, the woman received an amount of € 107,275 from the B.V. receive. This loan was not repaid during the marriage. After December 31, 2009, the woman has the full amount of this debt to the B.V. satisfied.

(ix) No set-off of excess income took place during the marriage of the parties.

(x) The court has delivered the divorce filed for by the woman. The divorce decision was entered in the registers of civil status on October 13, 2011.

3 Scope of Dispute
2.1.2
This dispute relates to the settlement of the prenuptial agreement, in particular the settlement of the netting clause of saved income referred to in 2.1.1 under (i) (Article 11 of the prenuptial agreement).

The husband requests, among other things, the determination and payment of the amount owed to him by the woman in the settlement of saved income.

Among other things, the woman requests payment of half of the amount in the B.V. accrued standing rights of the man.

2.2.1
In the divorce decision, the court determined, among other things - after the parties had reached agreement on this point - that 31 December 2009 will be the reference date for the size and value of the assets to be settled.

2.2.2
In its final decision, the court determined the amounts that the parties owe each other by way of set-off, and decided that the woman must pay the husband on balance € 72,762 (in principal).

2.3.1
In its interim decision of November 8, 2016, the court has set the following with regard to the immovable property:

4.7. (…)

In its judgment of 10 July 2009, ECLI: NL: HR: 2009: BI4387, the Supreme Court stated that no distinction is made according to whether the investment of saved but not settled income in the settlement period relates to newly acquired goods, then however - as in the case of [the immovable property] - property already acquired before marriage. This applies mutatis mutandis if the acquisition of an asset belonging to one of the spouses is financed from chargeable income to be offset, if such an improvement results in an increase in value of the asset and therefore leads to additional wealth formation, such as major renovation of an immovable property.

If a mortgage loan has been taken out for the acquisition or renovation of a house belonging to one of the spouses and, in connection with this, a capital insurance policy has also been taken out that aims to (in due course) repay the mortgage loan with the accrued capital, payment of insurance premiums from saved income to be equated with repayment of the mortgage debt. This means that the value that the policy has on the reference date is taken into account in that sense, that the mortgage loan with which the acquisition or renovation was financed is deemed to have been repaid with that amount from saved income. According to the Supreme Court, the other spouse is also entitled to settlement of the value (increase) of the home in proportion to that amount, in proportion to that amount.

In the case to which this judgment refers only the settlement of the policy financed with excess income was at issue. The Supreme Court has decided on this that the amount to be settled between the parties can be determined by dividing the value of the endowment insurance on the reference date by the total amount that is formed by the value of the house before the renovation and the amount of the mortgage loan that financed the renovation, and multiply the result by the value of the house on the reference date.

4.8.
During the marriage, three renovations have taken place, (mortgage) loans have been repaid and other (mortgage) loans have been taken out, interest has been paid - insofar as relevant - insofar as the (mortgage) loans relate to the business part of [the real estate ] (hereinafter: interest) and value has been built up on policies. According to settled case law, the calculation method quoted above (in principle) also applies to renovations, repayments and - possibly - interest payments on mortgage loans financed from saved income, insofar as this does not relate to the matrimonial home. In short, this calculation method boils down to: the investment from saved income divided by the total investments, multiplied by the value.

4.9.
The woman states that the value of the policies, the redemptions and the interest should not be included in the settlement. To this end it puts forward the following. The premiums, repayments and interest have not been paid from excess income. The premiums and repayments are always by the B.V. satisfied. The interest is initially also charged by the B.V. paid, and then by herself, because the interest has since been included in the annual report of the riding school as an operating expense, as shown in the 2008 annual report of the riding school and its tax report, to which it refers. In the alternative, the woman is of the opinion that the investment theory does not apply to the interest and at most the B.V. has a nominal claim on the equestrian center.

The man has argued, on the other hand, that the payments to [the woman's mother] and [the man's mother] have been paid directly from his private account. The interest and premiums were set by the B.V. paid, after which the amounts involved were added to the man's current account debt to the B.V. The man has a monthly amount from his private account, on which his salary was deposited, to the B.V. remitted in order to repay the debt arising from the payments. At the appeal hearing, the man explained that the payment to ABN Amro was made in this way, because the bank wanted payment to be made from an account with ABN Amro and the B.V. had an account with ABN Amro. The man brought a number of bank statements to the court to substantiate this.

4.10.
The woman has not stated enough to follow her position that the premiums, repayments and interest have not been paid from excess income. Nor does the Court of Appeal follow the woman's position that the doctrine of investment does not apply to interest. The purchase and refurbishment of [the immovable property] would not have been possible without (mortgage) loans for which interest is owed. The interest paid thus contributed to the increase in value. The interest in respect of the business part of [the immovable property] can therefore, like the renovations and repayments, be regarded as investment in [the immovable property].

As decided by the Supreme Court in the judgment discussed above, payment of insurance premiums from saved income must be equated with repayment of the mortgage debt. The policies should therefore be included in the settlement.

4.11.
The woman takes the view that the business buildings should not be included in the setoff, because income was used exclusively for the renovation of the business house (the court understands: saved). The court finds from the documents in the file that [the real estate] at the time of the marriage consisted of a number of business buildings and a day care center, and that the three renovations included not only the house, but also a number of other business buildings. added. Without further explanation, which is missing, it is not possible to deduce from the file which amounts spent on the various renovations relate to the house or the commercial buildings. In addition, the repayments and premiums have also been paid from excess income. The court therefore does not follow the woman's position.

Finally, the woman has argued that the majority of the costs involved in the renovations have been paid from the (mortgage) loans. The court will discuss this argument below with the costs of the renovations. ”

2.3.2
Subsequently, in order to determine the amount due to the man for offsetting, the court distinguished five times, namely: (i) the marriage (October 13, 1990), (ii) the first renovation (1992/1993), (iii) the second renovation (1997), (iv) the third renovation (2002/2003), and (v) the reference date (December 31, 2009). (ground 4.12)

In the opinion of the court, a calculation should be made to determine the amount of saved income invested in the real estate in each of the periods between the marriage and the reference date. The amounts invested must then be related to the value of the real estate in the relevant period. Ultimately, half of the value of the investment from saved income accrues to the man on the reference date. (ground 4.13)

2.3.3
With regard to the man's standing rights, the court stated in its interim decision of 8 November 2016 as follows:

“4.21. (…) The man is of the opinion that his standing right is not eligible for setoff. To this end, he argues primarily that the severance pay is tied up and does not fall into the community. In the alternative, the severance payment cannot be regarded as saved income. The man refers to the master right agreement for this. Due to the construction of the termination fee in the B.V. not the severance payment, but the future (periodic) payment should be regarded as income. Placing the severance payment in the B.V. can be equated with the payment of pension contributions by the employer. Article 8 of the prenuptial agreement provides that the net income is eligible for setoff. Therefore, there is only deductible (net) income once the standing right is paid out. This is not yet the case.

(…)

4.22.
With regard to the man's standing rights, the woman states that this should be included in the settlement. (…)

4.23.
With the exception of the contents, the parties have not been married in any community of property. Therefore, the man's primary position regarding his standing rights cannot succeed. The court finds that the man does not receive periodic benefits from the B.V. until the reference date. has received. In view of article 11 in conjunction with paragraph 8 of the prenuptial agreement, the standing right cannot therefore be regarded as excess income that is eligible for setoff. The court of appeal follows the man's position that there can only be deductible income within the meaning of the prenuptial agreement after the standing rights have been paid. ”

2.3.4
After an expert appointed by the court had issued his report, the court in its final decision, insofar as relevant in cassation, partially annulled the final decision of the court and the balance to be paid by the woman to the man by way of set-off determined at € 82,512 (in principal).

4 Reasons of the Decision
3.1
Complaint I of the ground of appeal turns against a number of complaints against the principles set out by the court in its interim decision and the method followed by the court in that interim decision for calculating the amount due to the man by way of setoff, all as above. in 2.3.1-2.3.2. The complaints state, among other things, that the Court of Appeal wrongly failed to apply the rules developed by the Supreme Court to determine the size of the capital appreciation that has arisen due to the investment of saved income, or has applied those rules incorrectly. More specifically, the complaints challenge the decision of the court to distinguish the period between the marriage and the reference date in various periods and to determine the value of the investment from saved income for each period.

3.2
The statutory settlement clauses of Part 2 of Title 8 of Book 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (Article 1: 132-143 of the Dutch Civil Code) do not contain any provisions that determine the extent to which the increase in capital through investment and reinvestment of saved income must be determined. Contrary to the basis of the plea, no fixed rules have been developed for this in the case law of the Supreme Court. According to that case-law, the judge must "estimate" the amount to be settled. This means that the judge is free to use a method that suits the circumstances of the case before him. It is possible to examine in cassation whether the choice of and application of a particular method is understandable in the light of the circumstances of the case. It is also possible to examine in cassation whether, in applying a certain method, all investments and reinvestments that have been discounted in accordance with the case law of the Supreme Court in applying art. 1: 141 BW and art. 1: 136 BW must be taken into account.

3.3
The decision of the court to distinguish the period between the marriage and the reference date in different periods and to determine the value of the investment from saved income for each period is not incomprehensible in view of the actual developments that occurred during the marriage took place, namely the repayments on loans, the new mortgage loans and the three renovations of the immovable property (see 2.1.1 (iv) - (vi)). Nor does that decision constitute an error of law. The complaints set out in 3.1 above meet this.

3.4
Nor can the other complaints of the plea lead to cassation. The Supreme Court does not have to motivate why it came to this judgment. In assessing these complaints, it is not necessary to answer questions that are important for the unity or development of the law (see art. 81 paragraph 1 RO).

Assessment of the plea in the cross-appeal
4.1
Parts 1 and 4 of the plea have been proposed on the condition that the main appeal is effective. From what has been considered above in 3.3-3.4, it follows that this condition is not fulfilled, so that these parts do not require treatment.

4.2.1
Part 3, which has been unconditionally proposed, is in conflict with the judgment of the Court of Appeal (presented above in 2.3.3) that, in view of Art. 11 in connection with art. 8 paragraph 2 of the prenuptial agreement, the standing rights (referred to above in 2.1.1 under (vii)) cannot be regarded as excess income that is eligible for settlement. According to the court, there can only be deductible income within the meaning of the prenuptial agreement after the standing rights have been paid out, and it is established that the man will not receive periodic benefits from the B.V. until the reference date. has received. According to the part, the Court of Appeal wrongly considered decisive to what extent the tribal right was paid out during the marriage and thus ignored that it is decisive whether the entitlement under the tribunal right is formed of deductible income or private resources.

4.2.2
The interpretation of a settlement clause in prenuptial agreement must be based on the Haviltex standard. This means that the answer to the question of whether a standing right can be regarded as saved income that is eligible for settlement depends on the explanation that must be given in the specific case in the income concept included in the relevant settlement clause. Contrary to what the part argues, it cannot be ruled out that in a specific case the income concept must be interpreted in such a way that a standing right is not covered, regardless of how the standing right is formed.

4.2.3
The Court of Appeal's judgment that the standing right in the present case cannot be regarded as saved income within the meaning of art. 11 in connection with art. 8 paragraph 2 of the prenuptial agreement as long as the standing right has not yet been paid out, it must evidently be understood that it is not important that the standing right is formed by a severance payment, because in the circumstances of this case this payment cannot be set off as net income within the meaning of art. 11 in connection with art. 8 paragraph 2 of the prenuptial agreement must be considered. In view of what has been considered in 4.2.2 above, that opinion does not constitute an error of law. Nor is this judgment incomprehensible in the light of the woman's statements in this regard. The complaint presented in 4.2.1 above fails.

4.3
Nor can the other unconditionally proposed complaints of the plea lead to the annulment of the contested judgments. The Supreme Court does not have to motivate why it came to this judgment. In assessing these complaints, it is not necessary to answer questions that are important for the unity or development of the law (see art. 81 paragraph 1 RO).

5 Decision
The high Council:

in the principal and in the cross-appeal:

- dismisses the action;

- offsets the costs of the cassation proceedings in such a way that each party bears its own costs.

This decision was made by Vice President C.A. Streefkerk as chairman and councilors, M.V. Polak, C.E. du Perron, C.H. Sieburgh and F.J.P. Lock, and spoken publicly by Vice President E.J. Numann on March 13, 2020.

Cf. HR March 2, 2001, ECLI: NL: HR: 2001: AB0378, rov. 4.1.2.

For this case-law, see the Opinion of the Advocate General under 2.2-2.4.

HR 6 October 2006, ECLI: NL: HR: 2006: AX8847, dov. 3.4.