Pronunciation


Court THE HAGUE

Multiple Room

Trial numbers: FA RK 19-2985 (divorce) and FA RK 19-5938 (distribution)

Case numbers: C / 09/572165 (divorce) and C / 09/578506 (distribution)

Date of decision: March 16, 2020

Divorce with ancillary provisions
Decision on the request received on 16 April 2019 from:
[Y],
the man,

residing in [place of residence]

lawyer: mr. M.Y.M. Renken in Zoeterwoude.

Interested parties are:

[X],
the woman,

residing in [place of residence],

lawyer: mr. C. Elsinga in Leiden.

1 Proceedings

The court has heard of the documents, including:

the petition on the part of the man;

the F9 form of 29 April 2019, with attachment, from the side of the man;

the defense also includes independent requests of 15 July 2019 from the woman;

the defense against the independent requests also containing additional requests of 9 August 2019, from the side of the man;

the F9 form of 20 August 2019, with the apportionment and settlement form attached, on the part of the woman;

the two faxes of 9 September 2019, with the distribution and settlement form attached, from the man's side;

the F9 form of 24 December 2019, with the apportionment and settlement form attached, on the part of the man;

the supplementary petition of 24 January 2020 on the part of the man;

the letter of 31 January 2020, with attachments, from the woman's side;

the letter of 31 January 2020, with attachments, from the man's side;

the fax of 3 February 2020, with attachment, from the man's side.

On 3 February 2020, the court received letters from [first name jm], [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] in which they gave their opinion. In addition, [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] met with the children's judges separately on February 13, 2020, in the presence of an interpreter.

The case was heard at the plenary chamber of this court on February 13, 2020. Hereby appeared:

the man assisted by his lawyer;

the woman assisted by her lawyer and an interpreter, Mrs. [name 1];

Ms [name 2] on behalf of the Child Protection Board.

During the hearing, pages 8 to 10 of the pleading notes were submitted and nominated by the woman.

2 Facts
- The man and the woman were married on [marriage date] 1998 in [place of marriage 2], Australia.

- They are the parents of the following children:

- [name jm], born on [date of birth 1] 1999 in [place of birth], Australia;

- [name mj 1], born on [date of birth 2] 2005 in [place of birth], Australia;

- [name mj 2] born on [date of birth 3] 2007 in [place of birth], Australia.

- The parents exercise joint custody of [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2].

- According to the extracts from the system under the Personal Records Database Act, the man has at least Dutch nationality and the woman has at least Australian nationality. The children have Dutch and Australian nationality.

- This court took provisional measures on August 16, 2019, insofar as it is now relevant that:

- [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] will be entrusted to the woman after the marital home has been sold and delivered;

- with regard to the provisional distribution of care and upbringing duties, it has been determined: as long as the matrimonial home has not yet been sold and delivered: that [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] every other week under the responsibility of the husband or of the woman, from the date on which the husband and wife each have independent living accommodation: that [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] are with the father during one week and with the mother during the other week, with as a changeover day on Sunday evening and that the holidays and public holidays will be divided in half between the man and the woman;

- the husband will provisionally provide a living allowance for the wife with effect from 8 July 2019 up to the sale and delivery of the marital home € 1,472 gross per month and after the sale and delivery of the marital home € 1,500 gross per month;

- From 8 July 2019, the husband will pay a provisional contribution of € 175 per month per child to the care and upbringing of [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2], to be paid in advance each time.

3 Appeal
The husband's request as it now reads extends to divorce with ancillary provisions to:

- determining the distribution of care and upbringing duties among the children in accordance with the man's proposal;

- determining who must pay the other costs of care and upbringing with which monthly amount, depending on the main and registration address of the children;

- determining the division of the matrimonial community in accordance

the proposal of the man, whereby it is determined that the man is entitled to a right of compensation or claim amounting to € 13,857, plus

€ 7,722 in the event that the husband pays the currently outstanding common charges, which must be borne by the parties in half but are in fact fully paid by the husband, and stipulate that the wife must pay the claim to the husband. immediately after delivery of the marital home to the buyers by settling this amount due to the man with the share of the equity of the marital home of the woman and to determine that this settlement takes place through the third-party account of the notary passing by parties;

all this as far as possible with a declaration of enforceability with stock.

The woman defends the ancillary services requested by the husband, which defense will be discussed below - insofar as necessary.

The woman has also independently requested to pronounce the divorce, with additional provisions up to:

- determination of the primary residence of the children in women;

- determining the division of care and upbringing duties, in that the children spend one weekend every fortnight as well as part of the holidays and public holidays with the man;

- determination of a child maintenance of € 1,000 per month per child to be paid by the husband;

- determination of spousal maintenance payable by husband to wife

€ 2,500 gross per month;

- determination of the division of the matrimonial community under Australian law, in accordance with the woman's proposal;

- provision that the pension entitlements accrued by parties in Australia and the Netherlands be divided / settled;

all this as far as possible with a declaration of enforceability with stock.

The man refers with regard to the requested divorce and the request about the primary residence of the children. The husband defends the wife's other independent requests, which will be discussed below - insofar as necessary.

4 Reasons of the Decision
Divorce

Jurisdiction and applicable law

Since both spouses have their habitual residence in the Netherlands when the divorce petition is submitted, the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the divorce petition. Pursuant to Article 10:56 paragraph 1 of the Civil Code (BW), the court will apply Dutch law to the request for divorce.

Admissibility / parenting plan

The court finds that no parenting plan signed by both parents has been submitted. Pursuant to Article 815 paragraph 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv), a petition for divorce must contain a parental plan with regard to the minor children of both parents over whom they jointly exercise custody. Now that the parental plan has been formulated in law as a procedural requirement for a divorce petition involving minor children, the court has jurisdiction to declare a spouse inadmissible in the divorce petition, unless there are grounds to believe that the parenting plan cannot reasonably be submitted (Article 815 paragraph 6 DCCP).

The court is of the opinion that the parents have given sufficient reasons that during the proceedings it has proved impossible to produce a parenting plan signed by both of them. Now that the parents have so far not been able to make agreements together about the care scheme and child maintenance, the court will ignore the requirement of Article 815 paragraph 2 DCCP.

Now that the other legal formalities have been completed, the court will receive the man and woman in their divorce petitions.

Substantive assessment

The permanent breakdown of marriage alleged by the husband has been recognized by the woman and is therefore fixed. The court will award the divorce applications based on this, as well-founded on the law.

Primary Residence and Care Scheme

Jurisdiction and applicable law

Now that the children are habitually resident in the Netherlands, the Dutch court has jurisdiction under Dutch law to decide on the request to determine the primary residence and the request to determine the care scheme.

Substantive assessment

Primary residence

The parents agree that [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] will have the primary residence with the woman. The court will therefore grant this request.

Care plan

In preliminary relief proceedings, the court has established a provisional care arrangement that - in short - means that [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] are with women one week and men the other week. Now that the family is currently living together in the matrimonial home, this actually means that the children are one week under the responsibility of the woman and the other week under the responsibility of the husband. This care scheme will be implemented until the sale and delivery of the matrimonial home on April 20, 2020.

The parents disagree on how the distribution of the care and upbringing tasks should be structured below. The man would like a care arrangement in which the children are with him one week and the woman the next. The woman proposes a care scheme in which the children are (at least) with the man for a weekend every fortnight.

Now that the parents are unable to make agreements together, the court will determine a care scheme. The court considers as follows. Both parents will soon have to move to another house, which will change the current situation. The fact that a care scheme in the form of co-parenting currently applies does not, in the court's opinion, mean that this is also in the best interest of the children after the move. Although the parents have indicated that they both prefer to live close to the children's school and close to each other, it is inevitable that [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] have to travel back and forth between their parents . [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] have told the children's judges that they find it difficult when they have to move from one house to another every week with all their (school) belongings; they prefer an arrangement whereby they go to their father for a weekend every two weeks. The court finds it important, because [first name minor 1] is 14 years old and [first name minor 2] 12 years old, important to take their opinion into account. The court is of the opinion that an arrangement whereby [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] spend a weekend in the fortnight with their father, compared to the current situation, is too limited. The court will therefore establish a care arrangement whereby [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] will be with their father from school on Thursday until 8 p.m. one week and from school until 8 p.m. the next week. The court considers this arrangement to be in the best interest of the children, because they then have the "home base" they want with their mother, but still have regular contact with their father to also maintain and improve the relationship with him. In addition, the court will determine that [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2], to be divided by mutual agreement by the parents, that half of the holidays and public holidays will be with their father.

The court will thus decide. Anything more or different that has been requested with regard to the care scheme is rejected.

Child support

Jurisdiction and applicable law

Now that [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] - the maintenance beneficiaries - live in the Netherlands, the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the request for determination of the contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing. Pursuant to Article 3 of the Protocol of 23 November 2007 on the law applicable to maintenance obligations, the court will apply Dutch law to the request.

Substantive assessment

Need

The husband and wife disagree on which (income) data should be used to calculate the needs of [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2].

The woman primarily argues that a net disposable family income of € 5,000 per month should be assumed, because the family - in addition to the income from the work of the husband - also lived on their property. In the alternative, the wife believes that the net disposable family income should be calculated on the basis of the husband's current income.

€ 80,000 gross per year.

The man states that the net disposable family income must be based on his income of € 54,675 gross per year that he earned at [name of B.V. 1] B.V., where he worked as an employee until April 17, 2019.

When determining the need for child maintenance, the court applies the basic principles, as laid down in the Report on Maintenance Standards of the Expert Group on Maintenance Standards and the associated Table of Own Cost of Children. To determine this need, the net disposable family income (nbgi) of parties during their marriage must first be determined. The net disposable income (NBI) of each parent is the sum of the gross income, including holiday allowance and any other income, less any taxes and premiums payable thereon, also taking into account the relevant tax credits. Reasonable (deductible) pension costs and contributions for disability insurance are also taken into account, regardless of whether they arise from a group contract or an individual pension scheme. No account is taken of the tax consequences of having an owner-occupied home within the meaning of the Wet IB 2001 (notional rental value and deduction of mortgage interest) and / or the premiums for insurance and repayments necessary to finance the home. Also, the tax consequences of the addition due to a company car are not taken into account.

The court sees no reason to take into account the fact that the parties also used (income from) assets to provide for the costs of the family when determining the table needs of the children. It has not been established or proven with what amount the family (monthly) took interest in their assets. In addition, it will be established that the parties will not discount the high school costs of the children in the table requirement, but will meet their wealth as they are currently used to. This already takes into account the fact that the parties were used to using their ability to meet part of the needs of the children. The court therefore ignores the primary position of the woman that the net disposable family income is € 5,000 per month.

The court will determine the net disposable family income based on the current income of the husband. Now that the man has been working for [name B.V.] since 1 May 2019. 2] B.V. and it has not been shown that the man will no longer work here soon, the court is of the opinion that the children should also benefit from the substantially higher income that the man enjoys with his current employer. The court refers to the Report on Maintenance Standards, which states that an increase in a parent's income, insofar as this income becomes higher than the (family) income during marriage, should in principle influence the parent's income. determination of need. Indeed, if the family relationship had continued, that increase would also have had a positive effect on the amount spent on the children.

NBI man while parting

When calculating the NBI of the man, the court takes the salary of € 80,000 gross per year - as shown in the employment contract and employer statement - as a starting point, now that it has been shown that compared to the monthly contribution of € 251.84 that the man will actually incur costs for health insurance ('health ins.').

The court also takes into account:

the pension contribution;

the WIA premium.

In addition, the court takes into account the following tax credits:

the general tax credit;

the employed person's tax credit.

Based on the aforementioned principles, the court calculates the NBI of the man on an amount of € 3,836 per month. The court hereby refers to the calculation appended to the order 1.

Rental income

With the net disposable family income, the court will not take into account the income from the rental of the holiday home in [location of the holiday home]. Parties have only operated the holiday home since February 2019 and the net income - at least since the decision in the provisional relief procedure of 16 August 2019 - only belongs to the woman.

In view of the above, the net disposable family income - based on the husband's income - is therefore € 3,836 per month. This fact, added to the applicable number of child benefit points (2), yields a table amount of € 814 per month. The court has used the table for a family with two children, as both parties have done in their own calculations, now that [first name jm] is young-adult (and intends to live alone in Australia after his gap year). ).

Indexed to 2020, the needs of [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] together amount to € 834 per month.

Need-increasing costs?

The husband and wife agree that the children's school costs - approximately

In this case, € 7,000 per child per year should not be regarded as need-enhancing costs, since they will each pay half of these costs out of assets.

Carrying capacity of parents

Next, an assessment must be made of the proportion in which the parents should contribute towards the costs of [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2]. The own share in the costs of the children must be divided between the parents in proportion to their capacity. The amount of financial capacity is determined by the formula: 70% x [NBI - (0.3 NBI +

€ 975, -)]. For lower incomes (below an NBI of € 1,660) fixed amounts per category apply.

Carrying capacity man

The court has not shown that the position of the man with his current employer is uncertain in the short term, so that the court will ignore the position of the man - which has moreover been disputed by the woman - that is taken into account in the calculation of the ability to pay should be of the income he previously received of € 54,675 gross per year. When calculating the NBI of the man, the court will use his current income as shown in the salary slip of January 2020, namely € 6,666.66 gross per month. As indicated above, the court will not include the monthly contribution of € 251.84 for health insurance as an income component. The court will not further take into account a structural end-of-year bonus, now that the court is of the opinion that the man has sufficiently substantiated that the approximately € 1,600 net he received in December 2019 was a one-off (Christmas) bonus on which he (so ) cannot claim by default.

Based on the aforementioned principles - taking into account the pension premium, the WIA premium and the tax credits - the court calculates the current NBI of the man at an amount of € 3,902 per month. The court refers to the calculation appended to the order 2.

Housing costs

There is a dispute between the parties about how to deal with any future housing costs. Both parties have indicated that, after the marital home is sold and delivered on April 20, 2020, they each want to buy a new home with their share of the equity. However, it is not yet clear whether the man will buy a house with or without (additional) mortgage loans, so that he will have lower or no housing costs, or whether the man will (have to) move into a rental house in the meantime. live. In view of this lack of clarity, the court therefore sees no reason to deviate from the standard living expenses (of 0.3 x NBI) for child maintenance, which are taken into account in the ability to pay formula.

In addition, the man requests that the following cost items be taken into account.

Travel expenses

The court will not take into account the travel costs of € 1,500 per year (for public transport). The court assumes that these costs - instead of the medical costs, which are reimbursed by the man's employer - have been discounted in the social assistance standard.

Insurance

The court is of the opinion that the man has sufficiently explained the necessity of this cost item. Moreover, now that the woman has not made a substantive defense, the court will take into account the amount of € 55 per month for insurance against any after-claims that the man as an architect has still held in Australia.

Lawyer fees and debt repayments

The court will not take into account the alleged attorney fees of € 114 per month and the alleged debt repayments of € 250 per month. According to the overview submitted by the man as Exhibit 14, the total of the outstanding accounts (which relate to the costs of the household) is € 4,628, and according to Exhibit 35, outstanding attorney's fees are € 8,012.66. In the opinion of the court, the man has insufficiently substantiated that he cannot pay these outstanding accounts from his free space or from his (soon to be released) assets. The court expects the man to pay off these debts in the foreseeable future. Moreover, the court is of the opinion that the lawyer costs and the debts should not take precedence over the maintenance obligation towards the children.

In view of the above, the man's carrying capacity is according to the formula

70% x [3,902 - (0.3 x 3,902 + € 975 + 55)] = € 1,191 per month.

Woman carrying capacity

For child support, the court will determine the woman's ability to pay

€ 50 per month. In view of the woman's employment history, the court sees no reason to grant her earning capacity and thus a higher capacity in the context of child maintenance.

Cost distribution

The joint capacity of the parties amounts to a total of € 1,241 per month.

The distribution of the costs between both parents is then calculated according to the formula:

everyone's carrying capacity divided by the total carrying capacity multiplied by the need, in other words:

the man's own share amounts to: 1,191 / 1,241 x 834 = € 800

the woman's own share amounts to: 50 / 1,241 x 834 = € 34

together € 834

Therefore, of the total needs of [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2], part of € 800 per month is for the husband and part of € 34 per month for the woman.

Care discount

The man is entitled to the application of a so-called care discount on the child maintenance owed by him. It is disputed between the parties whether 25% or 35% of the need should be taken into account. The court considers it reasonable to apply a percentage of 35%. After all, in the care scheme established by the court, the man cares for the children more than two days a week.

The children's need is € 834 per month, so that the healthcare discount amounts to a rounded amount of € 292 per month.

The previously calculated contribution is reduced by this amount, so that the husband has to pay child support of € 508 per month to the woman.

Conclusion

In view of the foregoing, the court will determine that with effect from the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status, a man will contribute towards the costs of care and education of [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] of will pay a total of € 508 per month to the woman. The court will reject anything more or otherwise requested in the context of child maintenance.

Attach calculations

The calculations (1 and 2) made by the court are attached to this order and form part thereof.

Partner maintenance

Jurisdiction and applicable law

Now that the woman - the creditor - lives in the Netherlands, the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the maintenance request. Pursuant to Article 3 of the Protocol of 23 November 2007 on the law applicable to maintenance obligations, the court will apply Dutch law to the request for spousal maintenance.

Substantive assessment

Need woman

The court states first of all that - although the husband objects to the application of the Court standard - she considers that it is reasonable in this case to calculate the marriage-related need of the woman on the basis of the Court standard. After all, the court considers the requirement of € 5,000 net per month based on the list of requirements (Exhibit 14) to be unrealistic compared to the net disposable family income at the time of the marriage. In addition, the court sees in the fact that the parties were used to using capital to meet part of the needs of the children and the fact that there may be no or low housing costs after the division, that there is no reason to waive the Court standard. give way. After all, it has only been established that the high school costs of the children were (and are) paid out of capital, which is not relevant for determining the woman's needs. In addition, it is not yet clear what the housing costs of the woman will be after the marital home is sold and delivered on April 20, 2020. The woman currently has no view of an owner-occupied or rental home. The court therefore does not consider it reasonable to apply a correction to the Court standard in anticipation of the possible situation that the woman will have no or low (er) housing costs in the near future. This is all the more true since the parties also had mortgage payments at the time of the marriage that were paid out of the net disposable family income.

In calculating the need, the court assumes the net disposable family income of € 3,084 per month. This family income is calculated on the basis of the husband's income of € 54,675 gross per year that the husband earned at the time of the actual separation of the parties. The costs of the children of € 626 corresponding to this family income must be deducted from this. In view of this, the court calculates the woman's needs at (3,084 - 626 x 60% =) € 1,475 net per month. This corresponds to a gross amount of € 2,267 per month. The court hereby refers to calculation 3a attached to the order.

Need for woman

It is disputed between the parties whether the woman is able to earn income in order to (partly) provide for her own subsistence.

The court considers it reasonable to assume that the woman has and is able to utilize earning capacity. Although the woman currently has no income from work and has no relevant work experience during the majority of the marriage, the court is of the opinion that the woman can be expected to make an effort to earn income in her to make a living. After all, the woman, with her university studies in Australia, is well-educated and is currently still relatively young (43 years). Moreover, the court does not see caring for the children as an obstacle for the woman to start working (at least part-time), now [first name jm], [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] 20, 14 and 12 respectively years old. It has also been shown that the woman is learning the Dutch language, which will further increase her chances on the Dutch labor market.

In view of the above, the court will determine a (fictitious) earning capacity. On the side of the woman, the court will not take income from rental into account, as it is still unclear what will happen in the context of the distribution with the holiday home in [place holiday home]. The court does assume that the woman will be able to earn an income of € 1,100 gross per month in the short term, based on the minimum wage and a working week of 24 hours.

This means that the court takes the starting point that the woman still needs a contribution to make a living of € 1,167 per month (2,267 - 1,100).

The court will then assess the extent to which the man has the means to pay a contribution to the woman.

Carrying capacity man
In calculating the man's ability to pay for spousal maintenance, the court assumes the same income as it used to calculate the ability to pay for child maintenance. This concerns a gross income of € 6,666.66 per month. The court calculates the current NBI of the man - taking into account the pension contribution, the WIA contribution and the tax credits - at an amount of € 3,902 per month.

With regard to the monthly charges, the court notes the following:

Health insurance premium

Now that his employer's husband receives a monthly health insurance contribution of € 251.84, the court will not take into account the health insurance premium in its calculation.

Mandatory deductible

The court will not take into account the compulsory deductible, since it has not been shown that the man consumes this (completely).

Housing costs

In view of the ambiguity regarding future housing costs, the court takes into account a notional housing cost of € 1,171 in basic rent. This corresponds to the standard living load of 0.3 x NBI, which is taken into account in the financial capacity formula for child maintenance.

Travel expenses

As previously considered, the court will not take into account the travel costs of

€ 1,500 per year (for public transport).

Insurance

The court will - with reference to what has been considered above - take into account the amount of € 55 per month for insurance against any after-claims that the man as an architect has still held in Australia.

Lawyer fees

The court considers that, according to the Report on Maintenance Standards, attorney fees incurred in the context of family law proceedings are not considered to be a necessary burden that takes precedence over a maintenance obligation. If partner maintenance is established, this can be judged differently under special circumstances. If demonstrable legal costs have been incurred and no cash is available or are expected within the foreseeable future, the Expert Group recommends taking into account a monthly charge of a maximum of € 114 for a maximum of one year. In this case, the court is of the opinion that the man has not sufficiently substantiated that he is currently unable to pay the outstanding lawyer costs of € 8,012.66 or that he will be able to pay his assets released in the context of the distribution within the foreseeable future. The court will therefore not take into account the stated lawyer costs.

Debts

The court assumes that the alleged debts of € 4,628 (which relate to the costs of the household) can be repaid with available capital or available capital in the near future. The court will therefore disregard the alleged repayment of € 250 per month.

Costs Children

In the calculation, the court has taken into account the man's own share in the costs of the children (including healthcare discount) of € 800 per month.

For men, the social assistance standard applies to a single person of € 1,052 and a carrying capacity of 60%.

In view of the foregoing and in view of the tax consequences, the court is of the opinion that an amount of partner maintenance for the woman of € 552 gross per month is reasonable and equitable and in accordance with the legal standards. The court refers to calculation 3b attached to the order.

Limitation

The court will reject the husband's request to limit the spousal maintenance payable by the husband to a maximum of two years. To this end, the court considers that limiting spousal maintenance is a drastic decision, now that this practically ends the right to a living contribution after more than 21 years of marriage for the woman. Due to the far-reaching consequences of limitation, high demands are placed on the circumstances to be imposed by the debtor, and if necessary to prove, circumstances that would justify limitation. The court sees in what the man has stated no reason to limit spousal maintenance to a maximum of two years. Moreover, in the foregoing the court took the position of the man, that the woman can be expected to find a job to support herself, to assess the woman's earning capacity and neediness.

Conclusion

The court will determine that the husband must pay an amount of partner's maintenance allowance of € 552 gross per month to the woman with effect from the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status. The more or otherwise requested will be rejected by the court.

Attach calculations

The calculations made by the court (3a and 3b) are attached to this order and form part of it.

Distribution

Jurisdiction and applicable law distribution

Now that the Dutch court has jurisdiction under the Brussels II-bis Regulation with regard to the application for divorce, it also has jurisdiction with regard to the requested with regard to the matrimonial property regime of parties (Article 5, first paragraph, Matrimonial Property Regimes).

In determining the applicable law, the court assumes the following. Now that the spouses are married to each other on [date of marriage] 1998, the Hague Matrimonial Property Convention 1978 applies to the matrimonial property regime. At the time of the marriage, the woman had Australian nationality and the husband had Dutch nationality. The spouses lived in Australia at the time of the marriage and continued to live in Australia after the marriage. Since the court has not established that the spouses have made a valid choice of law before marriage, the matrimonial property under Article 4 (1) of the Convention is governed by the law of the State where they established their first habitual residence after marriage. This was in Australia. This means that Australian law applies to matrimonial property. No situation as referred to in Article 7 of the Treaty has arisen since then.

The court understands from Part VIII of the Australian Family Law Act 1975 and the explanation given by the Amsterdam Court of Justice in its judgment of 4 December 2018 (ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2018: 4451) that Australian law requires the following four steps to be followed to arrive at a division of the marital property:

inventory of assets;

determine who contributed what to the marriage;

determine who is allocated which percentage of the assets;

fairness test ("just and equitable").

All assets that are present on the reference date must be classified as marriage assets, unless it is stated and demonstrated that this is different.

The man and the woman do not disagree on this explanation of Australian law.

Substantive assessment

The reference date

There is no dispute between the man and the woman that the reference date for determining the size of their assets is April 16, 2019, being the date of submission of the request for divorce.

The inventory of assets

The man and the woman agree that their assets ("property pool") include the following:

the marital home at the [address marital home] ([postcode 1]) in [place of residence];

the holiday home at the [address of the holiday home] ([postcode 2] in [place of the holiday home];

mortgage loan (s) from Rabobank ([mortgage number 1] and [mortgage number 2]);

household contents [place of residence];

contents [place holiday home];

the car;

bank and savings accounts.

Who contributed what?

It is not disputed between the parties that at the time of their marriage, in 1998, they both had no significant assets. Parties disagree on how to deal with what has been brought in gifts during the marriage and whether compensation rights (to the community) have arisen as a result of this.

The woman states - briefly stated - that during the marriage she received various gifts from family members totaling $ 300,000 (Australian Dollars). These gifts were made to the woman, not to the parties jointly. In the context of the distribution, this amount therefore falls to the woman before the distribution is made, according to the woman.

The man states that he has also received numerous gifts during the marriage years, of at least € 76,000. According to the man, all the wealth that has flowed into the community from the man is a claim of the man on the community.

The court is of the opinion that both parties - given the substantiated disputes about each other - have insufficiently demonstrated that they have received gifts and / or (advances on) inheritances under an exclusion clause. As Exhibit 8, the woman has submitted emails between herself and her father and a statutory declaration signed by her father on January 29, 2020, stating:

"This is to verify that I [father of X] gave my daughter [X] (1) gift sum of 50,000 AUS Dollars for her personal use to buy a car. This was a personal gift and only for her, not others. (2) A further gift of 170,000 AUS Dollars as a one-off inheritance sum. (…) I must state and clarify; All monies gifted to [first name X] were for her only, and only her, not others. ”Although this statement states that the amounts donated are only intended for women, the court is of the opinion that this single statement, which also it has been put in writing only on January 29, 2020, so during this divorce procedure, there is insufficient substantiation to be able to conclude that an amount of a total of $ 220,000, according to the rules in force in Australia at the time, so at the time of the donations, is excluded. was given to the woman. For the rest - an amount of $ 80,000, which the woman claims to have received from an uncle and her grandmother - no document has been submitted for substantiation. For that amount, the court cannot determine at all whether there has been a donation and if so, whether this has been donated only to the woman under the exclusion clause.

In support of his position as Exhibit 38, the man submitted 38 lists of underlying bank statements. The court cannot infer from this that there have been donations to the man with exclusion. Furthermore, both the $ 300,000 gifts made by women and the $ 76,000 gifts made by men - which it has not been shown that - if there were already gifts under exclusion - would be such a situation under Australian law. The consequence may, and in this case must be, that a right to reimbursement of these amounts will arise.

Distribution and fairness test

The court understands from the explanation of the parties that a equity test is applied under Australian law when allocating the joint property ('property pool'), which may result in it being reasonable ('just and equitable') that the equity is not is divided into halves. The court sees in what both parties have put forward no reason to divide their joint property in a manner other than by halves. The parties together made the choice that the husband would be the breadwinner and that the wife would take over most of the care for the children and the household. In addition, the court has found that although the husband contributed the majority of the income as a result, the wife (also) contributed capital, but the husband also had a share in the care of the children. Both parties therefore made efforts during the marriage, with financial and non-financial contributions, so that the joint property is amassed. In the opinion of the court, it is therefore reasonable to divide this capital in half. In the circumstance that the woman currently has no income from work, the court also sees no reason to determine a division other than by half, now that the woman (under Dutch law) will receive spousal maintenance.

The court will then discuss the items listed under a to g.

The matrimonial home

According to the purchase agreement, the marital home at the [address marital home] in [place of residence] will be sold on April 20, 2020 and delivered to a third party at a purchase price of

€ 1,000,000. There is no dispute between the parties that they will share the equity by half after repayment of the mortgage loan from Rabobank. The court notes that it assumes that the loan part with number [mortgage no. 1] is in any case linked to the matrimonial home and that this part of the mortgage loan will be repaid by the parties. In the operative part of the order, the court will state that half of the husband and wife are each entitled to the equity of the marital home.

Holiday home in Meppen

Parties have a holiday home in [place holiday home], which, according to the deed of delivery, was purchased on April 20, 2018 for € 81,000. The court cannot determine clearly from the documents submitted and what was discussed during the hearing whether the loan part with number [mortgage no. 2] - as the husband states - has been concluded for the purchase of the holiday home with the matrimonial home in [residence] as collateral or - as the wife says - has been entered into for an (extra) renovation of the matrimonial home. Given the start date of the term of the loan, December 15, 2017, and the original amount of € 76,175, the court considers it plausible that this mortgage loan has been taken out for the purchase of the holiday home. The court will therefore take this as a starting point.

The woman wishes the holiday home to be allocated to her. The man can agree to this, but at a current appraisal value and with 'taking over' the mortgage loan attributable to the holiday home.

Now that the parties agree in principle, the court will determine that the holiday home is allocated to the woman if the woman is able to take over the man's share in the holiday home. The court is of the opinion that the holiday home must first be appraised for this purpose. Parties must jointly issue an order to a broker chosen by them. The man will present three brokers to the woman, from which the woman will choose one broker. The court considers it reasonable that the parties bear half of the costs for this valuation together. The woman is then given up to three months after the date of this decision to determine whether she can finance the home at its appraised value. If the wife can take over the husband's share at the appraisal value, the holiday home is allocated to the wife. The woman must then ensure that the man is released from the joint and several liability for the loan part of the mortgage loan with Rabobank with number [mortgage no. 2]. Subsequently, the parties are each half entitled to the equity.

The court will also already determine that if the woman cannot demonstrate within the stipulated period that she can take over the holiday home, it must still be sold to a third party. In that case, the parties must issue an order for sale to their chosen broker within two weeks of the aforementioned three-month period. The court assumes that both parties will cooperate in the actions required for sale and that they will follow the broker's advice. When the house is sold and delivered to a third party, the loan part of the mortgage loan with Rabobank with number [mortgage no. 2] are repaid. Parties will have to use the sales proceeds for this. After this, the parties are each half entitled to the remaining equity.

If the loan part of the mortgage loan from Rabobank with number [mortgage no. 2] are redeemed on the sale of the matrimonial home, the above applies in full, with the proviso that the wife then owes the husband an amount of half the appraisal value when taking over the home and that on sale to a third party both accrue half of the sales proceeds minus sales costs.

household effects

The court understands from the positions of the parties that they will divide the contents of the matrimonial home and the contents of the holiday home in [place of holiday home] in half by mutual agreement.

Auto

The court has shown from the documents submitted and what was discussed during the hearing that the woman bought the car with money that the woman (exclusively) received from her father. Now that the man has not disputed that the car was bought by the woman with her own means, the court will allocate the car to the woman without further deduction of the value.

Bank and savings accounts

The court will determine that the parties must share the balances of the bank and savings accounts in Australia and in the Netherlands as of the reference date, 16 April 2019, in halves. After this, the parties must, if this has not yet happened, close the joint accounts or change the ascription. The man's bank and savings accounts will be allocated to the man and the woman's bank and savings accounts will be allocated to the woman. The court will hereby determine that parties must exchange bank statements mutually, showing the balances of all their bank and savings accounts as of the reference date.

The court assumes that the parties will leave the Youth Accounts at Rabobank of [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] outside the distribution, now that this money is due to the children.

The court will thus decide.

Claim of the man

Briefly stated, the man states that he is entitled to a right of reimbursement or claim amounting to € 13,857, because he has borne costs that should have been borne jointly with the woman or should have been fully borne by the woman. According to the man, this amount may have to be increased by

€ 7,722 if the man fully complies with the currently outstanding common charges that must be borne by the parties in half. The husband wants the wife to pay this claim to the husband immediately after the transfer of the matrimonial home by offsetting the part of the equity accruing to the wife.

During the hearing, the woman disputed the claim with reasons.

The court is of the opinion that, in view of the motivated dispute by the woman, the husband has insufficiently substantiated his claim. In the opinion of the court, it is not possible to trace from the production 37 submitted by the man - overviews with underlying bank statements drawn up by himself - who of the parties paid which amounts, which of them subsequently should have paid which amounts and whether the man possibly has a claim on the woman. The court cannot determine whether and to what extent the man would have contributed too much (or too little) to the common burdens. The court will reject the man's request.

Retirement

Jurisdiction and applicable law

Now that the Dutch court has jurisdiction over the divorce petition, it also has jurisdiction over the petition for pension equalization.

The court considers that Section 10:51 BW provides that the question whether a spouse is entitled to part of the pension entitlements accrued by the other person by divorce is governed by the law applicable to the spouses' matrimonial property regime, subject to Section 1. paragraph 7 of the Act on equalization of pension rights upon divorce (WVPS). The latter means that the WVPS applies when it comes to the equalization of pension rights accrued under a pension scheme as referred to in Article 1 paragraphs 4 to 6 of the WVPS. The WVPS - and therefore Dutch law - therefore applies to pension rights accrued under a Dutch pension scheme, regardless of the law applicable to the spouses' matrimonial property regime.

The court understands from the explanation of the parties that pension entitlements have in any event been built up in Australia. As this concerns a foreign pension scheme, this cannot be qualified as a pension scheme as referred to in Article 1, paragraphs 4 to 6 of the WVPS. This means that Australian law applies to the distribution of spouses' pension entitlements accrued in Australia.

The court further notes that if pension entitlements have been accrued in the Netherlands under a Dutch pension scheme, the WVPS does apply to any pension entitlements accrued in the Netherlands.

Substantive assessment

During the hearing, the parties indicated that the pension accrued during the marriage, when it is paid, will be divided in half or settled in accordance with Australian law. The court will thus decide.

5 Decision
The court:

*

pronounce the divorce between the man and the woman, married on [marriage date] 1998 in [place of marriage 1], Australia;

*

provides that minors:

[name mj 1], born on [date of birth 2] 2005 in [place of birth], Australia;

[name 2] born on [date of birth 3] 2007 in [place of birth], Australia;

will have the primary residence with the woman;

*

provides that [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] will be with the man:

one week from Thursday from school to Sunday 8 pm, after dinner;

the other Thursday from school until 8 p.m., with the children having dinner with the man;

half of the holidays and public holidays, to be divided by mutual agreement;

*

stipulates that, from the day that the divorce order is registered in the registers of civil status, the husband provides the woman with child support for [first name minor 1] and [first name minor 2] of € 508 per will pay the month, each time to be paid in advance;

*

stipulates that the husband will pay a partner's maintenance allowance of € 552 gross per month, with advance payment, starting on the day that the divorce order is entered in the civil registers.

*

with regard to the division of the matrimonial community:

1. the husband and wife are each half entitled to the equity of the marital home at the [address marital home] ([postcode 1]) in [place of residence];

2. the holiday home at the [address of the holiday home] ([postcode 2] in [place of the holiday home] is allocated to the woman at the appraisal value - which will be established in the manner described in the body of this decision - on the condition that she demonstrate within 3 months of today that she is able to acquire the (financing for the) full ownership of the holiday home and to have the man released from joint and several liability for the loan part of the mortgage loan with Rabobank with number [mortgage no. After which the woman has to pay half of the equity - the appraisal value minus the mortgage loan - to the man;

if the aforementioned condition cannot be met within the aforementioned period, the holiday home must be sold and delivered to a third party, whereby the loan part of the mortgage loan with Rabobank with number [mortgage no. 2] must be repaid, after which the parties are each half entitled to the remaining equity (ie the sale proceeds minus the mortgage loan and minus the costs);

if the loan part of the mortgage loan with Rabobank with number [mortgage no. 2] is redeemed on the sale of the matrimonial home, the above applies in full, with the proviso that the wife then owes the husband an amount of half the appraisal value when the holiday home is taken over and that on sale to a third party both accrue half of the sales proceeds minus sales costs.

3. the contents of the marital home at the [address marital home] ([postcode 1]) in [place of residence] and the contents of the holiday home at the [address holiday home] ([postcode 2]) in [place holiday home] will divide the man and the woman in half by mutual agreement;

4. the car known to the parties is allocated to the woman without any further settlement of the value;

5.The parties must share the balances of the bank and savings accounts in Australia and in the Netherlands by halve date as of April 16, 2019, after which the parties must close the joint accounts or change the ascription, the bank and savings accounts. the name of the man is allocated to the man and the bank and savings accounts in the name of the woman are allocated to the woman;

in this case, parties must exchange bank statements reciprocally showing the balances of all their bank and savings accounts as of the reference date;

*

provides that - in accordance with the arrangement between the parties - the pension accrued during the marriage, when it is paid, will be divided or equalized in halves between parties in accordance with Australian law;

*

declares this order enforceable to the extent that - with the exception of the divorce judgment - in stock;

*

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. J.C. Sluymer, C.J-A. Seinen and T.M. Coppes, judges, also children's judges, assisted by mr. M. Verkerk as registrar, and pronounced in public