Pronunciation


COURT OF 'S-HERTOGENBOSCH
Family and youth law team

Verdict: March 19, 2020

Case number: 200.270.511 / 01

Case number 1st instance: C / 01/351323 / JE RK 19-1535

in the appeal case of:

[the father] ,

residing in [place of residence],

appellant,

hereinafter referred to as: the father,

lawyer: mr. M. Poort-van der Meeren,

against

the Child Protection Board,

region Southeast Netherlands, location [location],

defendant,

hereinafter referred to as: the council.

This case concerns [minor] (hereinafter: [minor]), born on [date of birth] 2004 in [place of birth].

Stakeholders in this case are:

- [the mother] (hereinafter referred to as: the mother);

- Brabant Youth Protection Foundation, established in [place of business] and also having offices in [office place], the certified institution (hereinafter referred to as: the GI).

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of East Brabant, of 8 November 2019.

The appeal proceedings
2.1.
By an appeal with productions, received at the registry on 11 December 2019, the father requested that the aforementioned decision be annulled, insofar as this decision concerns the authorization for the placement of [minor] away from home and, once again, the council's request for authorization to to grant a home placement until - as the Court understands - May 8, 2020, be rejected.

2.2.
No statement of defense has been received.

2.3.
The oral hearing took place on February 20, 2020. On that occasion, the following were heard:

- the father, assisted by mr. Poort-van der Meeren;

- the Council, represented by Ms [Council representative];

- the mother;

- the GI, represented by Ms [GI representative].

2.4.
The court gave [minor] the opportunity to express his opinion. He did not use this.

2.5.
The Court also took note of the contents of:

the record of the oral hearing at first instance on 1 November 2019;

the V6 form with attachment submitted by the father's lawyer on December 17, 2019.

2 Facts
3.1.
From the marriage of the mother and the father, dissolved in the meantime, by divorce, [minor] was born on [date of birth] 2004 in [place of birth]. The father and mother now have a LAT relationship.

3.2.
In the contested decision - declared enforceable - the court placed [minor] under the supervision of the GI from 8 November 2019 to 8 November 2020 and also authorized the GI to [minor] from 8 November 2019 to May 8, 2020 to leave home in an accommodation of a youth care provider.

3.3.
The father cannot agree with this decision with regard to the authorization granted for out-of-home placement and he has appealed against this decision.

3 Appeal
3.4.
In summary, the father puts forward the following.

The out-of-home placement is an ultimum remedium and the need for this is lacking. The father is open to help and has always accepted it. He can educate and care for [minor] - with the help of assistance - at home. Nothing has changed yet because care providers do not meet the agreements. The indication for transport to [organization] has not yet been requested because of miscommunication and Multi System Therapy (MST) has not yet been used because nothing is being taken up by the GI. [minor] must first be able to go to [organization] without any obstacles and only then should he consider the possibilities of allowing him to travel himself. There is still no insight into the child's problems of [minor] because this has been insufficiently researched, while this is important for the deployment of concrete assistance. The council's conclusion that it is necessary in the interest of [minor] to remove him from home is therefore incomprehensible and unacceptable.

The requirements of Article 8 paragraph 2 of the ECHR are not met. The father's home is in no way an unsafe situation and the father can offer [minor] the peace and regularity he needs. Removing [minor] from home will cause him more harm than the current situation does. The out-of-home placement only causes irritation with [minor]; he indicates that he will then run away. An investigation should have been conducted into the impact of family intervention.

3.5.
In summary, the Council puts forward the following.

The need to break through the existing pattern is still there. This requires out-of-home placement and MST must be used. [minor] has to get away from normal daily life in which the father is powerless. A big step must be taken to actually come to a solution, otherwise [minor] will be eighteen immediately and he will not fit into society.

3.6.
In short, the mother argues that she agrees with what the father has put forward.

3.7.
In summary, the GI puts forward the following.

Due to the waiting periods, the authorization has not yet been implemented. It has been agreed with the parents that in the meantime they will have the opportunity to remove the developmental threat. However, the concerns mentioned by the council have not abated. The father indicates that he is open to assistance, but that is not seen enough. If this does not change, a new authorization will be requested. The parents do keep all agreements with care providers, but the father cannot talk about [minor]. If it does not go the way the father wants, he wants to hand over responsibility for [minor]. From the beginning, the GI and the father went to see how [minor] could start at [organization]. However, it was not possible to draw up an action plan with the father because, according to the father, because of his autism, [minor] cannot travel by public transport and the parents cannot bring him. There is no reason for special transportation and the latest research and the psychological examination does not show a diagnosis. An application has been made to the municipality stating that [minor] cannot travel by himself.

4 Reasons of the Decision
3.8.
The court considers the following.

3.8.1.
The father's appeal is not directed against the supervision of [minor].

3.8.2.
Pursuant to Article 1: 265b paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), the judge may, at the request of the Council, authorize the minor, during the day and at the request of the Council, to grant the certified institution, referred to in Article 1.1 of the Youth Act, which is responsible for carrying out the supervision. to leave the house at night if this is necessary in the interest of the care and upbringing of the minor or for the examination of his or her mental or physical condition.

3.8.3.
It has become apparent to the court that three months have now passed since the authorization for out-of-home placement was granted and this authorization has not yet been implemented. This means that the authorization has expired. The father invokes Article 8 of the ECHR in the sense that the authorization granted constitutes an infringement of private life and that he therefore has an interest in assessing the legality of the authorization granted.

Therefore, it is first of all at the discretion of the Court of Appeal whether the appeal appeal should be dismissed for lack of interest. Pursuant to Section 3: 303 of the Dutch Civil Code, no one is entitled to a legal claim without sufficient interest. The person who files a legal remedy against a temporary measure as a result of which he has been deprived of his liberty, should not be denied his interest in bringing proceedings on the sole ground that the period for which that measure applied has expired (HR 24 June 2011, NJ 2011, 390). In line with this, it is also assumed in cases in which a parent objects to the placement of a minor child away from home that, in view of the right to respect for his or her family life guaranteed by Article 8 of the ECHR, this parent has a legally relevant interest in the to have the lawfulness of the out-of-home placement assessed, and this parent should therefore not be denied his or her interest in bringing proceedings on the sole ground that the period for which the measure applied has now expired (HR 14 October 2011, NJ 2011, 596).

In the present situation, the out-of-home placement authorization has not been implemented and the authorization can no longer be implemented.

However, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that in this case too, the father has sufficient interest in bringing proceedings under the lawfulness of the measure under Article 8 of the ECHR. After all, the mere granting of the authorization has a direct impact on the family life of the father, because the imminent out-of-home placement of [minor] causes unrest and uncertainty for both the parents and [minor] himself during the three months in which the measure can be implemented. laid.

In view of this, the court is of the opinion that the father is admissible in his appeal request.

3.8.4.
On the basis of the documents submitted and the proceedings at the oral hearing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the authorization for out-of-home placement was rightly granted on good grounds at the time. Just like the court and on the same grounds as the court, which takes over the court - after its own assessment and appreciation - and makes it its own, the court is of the opinion that at the time of granting the authorization, the legal requirements of Article 1: 265b paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code. Despite extensive efforts to provide assistance, this had not got off the ground from the home situation. [minor] had not been to school for two and a half years now and his day and night rhythm had been disrupted. The out-of-home placement was necessary to break through existing patterns.

3.8.5.
With regard to the father's appeal to Article 8 of the ECHR, the Court of Appeal ruled that on the basis of the aforementioned facts and circumstances, as evidenced by the documents and the proceedings at the oral hearing, it has been sufficiently established that the out-of-home placement is necessary. is in the interest of [minor] and that the ECHR should not oppose such a measure in the circumstances.

3.8.6.
The oral procedure showed that the situation of [minor] compared to the oral procedure at first instance remains unchanged and that no concrete steps have yet been taken. There seems to be a bit of a stalemate in the sense that on the one hand the GI indicates that something is happening but that there is too little cooperation from the father and on the other hand the father indicates that nothing is happening. In view of the age of [minor], the Court of Appeal considers it important that action is now being taken, whereby the direction of helping [minor] to get started lies mainly with the GI, now that the parents (alone) apparently fail to do so. .

3.9.
The foregoing means that the contested decision must be ratified, insofar as it is subject to the judgment of the court.

5 Decision
The Council:

ratifies the order of the court of East Brabant, of 8 November 2019, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court of appeal;

requests the registrar to transmit a copy of this decision to the registrar of the court of Oost-Brabant, division of civil law, team of family and youth law for the attention of the central authority register, in accordance with the provisions of the Custody Registers Decree;

This decision was made by mrs. L.Th.L.G. Pellis, J.C.E. Ackermans-Wijn and E.H. Schijven-Bours and was pronounced in public on March 19, 2020 by mr. J.C.E. Ackermans-Wijn in the presence of the registrar.