Pronunciation


COURT OF LIMBURG
Family and childhood

Roermond seat

case number / appeal number: C / 03/244693 / FA RK 17-5068 and C / 03/259920 / FA RK 19-328

Order dated March 26, 2020 concerning the divorce

in the case of:

[man] ,

residing in [place of residence of man], of [address of man],

hereinafter referred to as the man,

lawyer mr. P.A. van Enckevort, established in Venlo,

against

[woman] ,

residing at [place of residence of wife], [address of wife], [country],

hereinafter referred to as the woman,

lawyer mr. M.C.J.G. Kathmann, established in Breda.

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

- the order of this court dated February 6, 2019;

- the correspondence including:

 distribute and settle the form of Mr. Kathmann of February 18, 2019;

 the letter from Mr. Kathmann of May 14, 2019, with attachments;

 the statement of defense with an independent request, also containing an amendment to the man's request;

 the power of attorney of the young adult of 26 May 2019;

 Mr. Van Enckevort's F9 form, submitted on July 19, 2019, with appendices;

 the letter from Mr. Van Enckevort of July 19, 2019, with attachments;

 Mr. Bekker's F9 form, submitted on July 22, 2019, with appendices;

 Mr. Van Enckevort's F9 form, submitted on November 26, 2019, with attachments.

 the F9 form from Mr. Kathmann dated 26 November 2019

 the F9 form from mr. Van Enckevort dated 10 December 2019 with the translations of documents written in Spanish.

1.2.
The hearing took place on 27 May 2019.

The following appeared on that occasion:

the man, assisted by mr. Peeters;

the woman, assisted by Mr. Kathmann.

1.3.
By order of February 6, 2019, the court has already pronounced the divorce and brought the case to court with regard to the settlement of the prenuptial agreement and the restricted community and the contribution for the young adult.

2 Facts
2.1.
The court refers to and accepts what is included in its order of February 6, 2019.

2.2.
Contribution young adult

2.2.1.
The woman requests that the husband should contribute half of the cost of living, study costs, study trips and holidays, or at least to provide that [daughter husband and wife] pay a contribution towards the cost of living and study .

The woman has submitted an authorization on behalf of [daughter husband and wife].

At the hearing, the woman indicated that she has now substantiated part of the costs for the study. At this time, the man pays nothing. The woman is of the opinion that [daughter husband and wife] is in any case entitled to financial support until the age of 21. This is now paid for by the woman's new partner.

The woman has indicated that [daughter husband and wife] has a need of € 805 per month and she requests that this be imposed on the man as a contribution.

The annuity premium for the study of [daughter husband and wife] has been spared with family money.

By letter of July 19, 2019, the woman further substantiated the need of [daughter husband and wife].

With effect from 1 September 2019, [daughter husband and wife] will attend a private university, of which the tuition fee is € 11,500 per year. In addition, [daughter husband and wife] has the following costs: travel costs, costs for clothing, shoes, personal care, sports costs, food costs, costs for traveling and leisure activities and the costs for her driving license. This means that [daughter husband and wife] has a need of approximately € 1,750 per month.

It may be that [daughter husband and wife] is eligible for a scholarship, which entitles her to a 30% discount on tuition fees, but this is not yet certain.

The woman is of the opinion that the husband should contribute half of the study costs, insofar as these are not paid from the balance of the study account.

By letter of July 22, 2019, the woman indicated that the study of [daughter husband and wife] would be paid as follows: € 5,000 annually from the study fund, the remaining amount of

€ 6,940 each for half. Since [daughter husband and wife] continues to live at home, housing costs are saved.

3 Appeal
2.2.2.
The man requests that the woman not receive or reject the request in her independent request.

The man stated at the hearing that he knew nothing about the authorization and that the woman should primarily be declared inadmissible. The woman has not substantiated the needs of the young adult.

The husband pays [daughter husband and wife] € 40, = pocket money per month and he pays her telephone costs.

The parties agreed that the husband would pay all the costs for the son and the woman all the costs for the daughter. The man is willing to make an appointment with the daughter about the cost of living and study. There was an agreement that the man, when the daughter was going to study, would release an annuity premium to pay the costs. In five years' time, an amount of € 25,000 would be paid out in total. The man is still willing to keep that agreement.

The man has contested the requirement of € 1,750 per month.

The husband acknowledges that he has a statutory maintenance obligation towards [daughter husband and wife]. However, the husband believes that the costs charged by the wife are excessive. For example, without consulting the husband, the woman enrolled [daughter husband and wife] in a private university, while the children never had private education. The associated high costs should therefore not be passed on to the man. Regarding the other costs reported by the woman, the man notes that these are not substantiated. The husband is therefore of the opinion that the wife has failed to substantiate the need of [daughter husband and wife] in any way by means of verification documents, so that the court must draw the conclusion that it deems advisable.

In the alternative, the husband is of the opinion that the needs of [daughter husband and wife] should be calculated as much as possible on the basis of the Student Finance Act. The standard amount for 2019 is

€ 1,056.05 per month.

The man is prepared to reimburse a total of € 25,000 over a period of five years. The man already pays € 1,420 per year for travel costs, pocket money and holiday pay for [daughter husband and wife].

The man calculates the woman's capacity at € 279 per month and his own capacity at € 621 per month. In proportion, the man must then contribute € 541 per month.

4 Reasons of the Decision
2.2.3.
The court is of the opinion that the woman has not substantiated the needs of [daughter husband and wife] that she has stated. It is undisputed between the parties that [daughter husband and wife] are studying. This means that, in the opinion of the court, it is clear that [daughter husband and wife] needs a contribution towards the costs of her living and study.

From the letter of the woman of July 22, 2019, the court understands that she figures her share of the costs of [daughter husband and wife] at € 289.17 per month and the share of the husband at € 705.84 per month (6940 : 2: 12 + 5000: 12). The court will therefore set the requirement of [daughter husband and wife] at € 995 per month.

The man must contribute to this with € 705.84 per month, of which € 416.67 per month is paid from the annuity insurance. In view of the position taken by the man regarding his standing, he is capable of this. The court will determine this contribution with effect from 1 September 2019, when [daughter husband and wife] started studying.

2.3.
Distribution and settlement

2.3.1.
The man has requested that the parties be ordered to settle the prenuptial agreement and to distribute the simple community of property.

2.3.2.
The woman has requested that the simple community of property existing between the parties be distributed in the manner she proposes and that settlement be carried out in accordance with prenuptial agreement.

Jurisdiction

2.3.3.
Now that the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the request for divorce, it also has jurisdiction with regard to the requested with regard to the matrimonial property regime of the parties. Whether the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the property in Spain is discussed below.

Prenuptial agreements

Parties were married on prenuptial agreement on [wedding day husband and wife] 1992.

Under Dutch private international law, Dutch law applies to the matrimonial property regime of the parties, now that the parties have made a valid choice of law for this right (see final statement).

The prenuptial agreement, in so far as relevant here, states:

"Article 1

The spouses are married to the exclusion of any community of property.

(…)

Article 5.

1.the costs of the joint household, including the costs of care and upbringing of the children born of the marriage, (…) are paid out of the net income of the spouses in proportion to that; insofar as these incomes are insufficient, these costs will be paid out of everyone's net assets in proportion to that.

2. Net income is understood to mean the concept of income as referred to in the Income Tax Act 1964, less the income tax, national insurance contributions and other statutory deductions or levies payable thereon.

(…)

Net wealth is understood to mean the concept of wealth as referred to in the Law on wealth tax 1964, less the tax on capital owed thereon (…)

(…)

Article 7

Premiums and single premiums for life insurance (including accident insurance) remain the responsibility of the spouse who has concluded the insurance contract.

Article 8

The spouses are obliged to offset between each of their calendar years what is deducted from their net income within the meaning of Article 5, less that which has been spent on the joint household, in the sense that one spouse obtains a claim on the other spouse amounting to half of the remainder on his side as referred to above. If the spouses get a mutual claim against each other, the claims will be offset by the relevant statement to the amount of the smallest claim. If a spouse benefits or has benefited in some other way from the remainder of the other spouse's income, his claim will be reduced accordingly.

(…)

Article 1 1

No settlement takes place:

a. about the time that the spouses do not cohabit, other than by mutual agreement, or that there is a legal separation between them;

(…)

Article 1 2

Pension entitlements and what has been sacrificed for that purpose will not be settled in accordance with Article 8, but with the exception of periodic benefits that lapse due to a pension entitlement.

Article 1 3

No settlement is made of the value of entitlements to a pension that may or may not have started. ”

Reference date

2.3.4.
Pursuant to Article 1: 141 paragraph 2 in conjunction with 1: 142 paragraph 1 sub b of the Dutch Civil Code (further BW), the man states that the reference date should be the date of no longer living together, being 12 April 2016. The man refers to Article 11 of the prenuptial agreement in which the parties have agreed that no settlement will take place over the time that the parties no longer cohabit, other than by mutual agreement. The intention of the parties when concluding the prenuptial agreement was that it is no longer necessary to set off after the cohabitation / actual termination of the relationship. The man considers it reasonable and fair to use this date as the reference date.

2.3.5.
The woman has contested the man's statement and has argued that the man has insufficiently substantiated or made plausible his statement. Pursuant to Article 1: 141 paragraph 2 in conjunction with 1: 142 paragraph 1 sub b of the Dutch Civil Code, the woman states that the date of receipt of the divorce petition by the court must be 20 December 2017. In the prenuptial agreement, the parties have not deviated from the time of submission of the request for divorce as the reference date for the composition and handling of the assets to be settled.

During the hearing, the woman took the position that it should not be in line with what is included in Article 11 of the prenuptial agreement. The woman argues for this that the divorce petition was filed late, because a divorce initially did not seem financially possible. The man only later chose to file a divorce petition. Then it is incorrect not to settle over the intervening period.

2.3.6.
With regard to the reference date, the court considers as follows:

In principle, the date on which the petition for divorce is filed applies to determine the extent of what can be divided and settled, unless the parties deviate from this in mutual consultation.

The court finds that the parties have agreed in Article 11a prenuptial agreement that no settlement will take place over the time that the spouses do not cohabit, other than by mutual agreement, or that there is a legal separation between them. The court has not established that the parties had any other intention with this provision. Article 11 is a written contractual provision with which of the in art. 1: 142 paragraph 1, preamble and under b BW, the time (the time of submission of the request for divorce) has deviated (as referred to in Article 1: 142 paragraph 2 BW). The court therefore ignores the woman's position. In the opinion of the court, the joint household between parties ended when the woman left the marital home on 12 April 2016.

Size

2.3.7.
The man has taken the position that the starting point should be exclusion from every community, unless it concerns income or capital that should be eligible for set-off.

With regard to the presumption of evidence pursuant to Article 1: 141 paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code, the man takes the position that he should only refute this and that there is therefore no full burden of proof on the part of the man.

The man is of the opinion that the repayments from the pre-marital property, the inheritance and the severance pay, the life insurance and annuities should not be settled.

According to the man, the simple community includes:

a villa in Spain, with the associated mortgage;

an apartment in Spain;

checking and savings accounts;

the loan from the husband to the wife.

2.3.8.
The woman is of the opinion that, since the parties have not settled periodically, all the available capital is presumed to have been formed from what should have been settled, unless the requirements of reasonableness and fairness dictate otherwise. At the end of the marriage, the existing assets formed from saved income must be settled, regardless of who owns the assets and from whose saved income that assets have been formed. Insofar as the man is of the opinion that an asset is not formed from what must be settled, it is up to him to make that plausible (HR 3 February 2017).

According to the woman, the assets to be settled between the parties on the reference date consist of:

the villa in Spain;

the apartment in Spain;

the life insurance / annuity;

the payment / savings accounts in the name of one of the parties.

According to the woman, the parties are only partners in a simple community within the meaning of 3: 166 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code regarding the payment and / or payment account.

2.3.9.
The court considers as follows:

The court establishes that the parties have agreed a periodical settlement clause in their prenuptial agreement in Article 8. Now that the parties have failed to implement Article 8, the obligation to set off the netted income and / or the netted assets remains in force, as follows from the provisions of Article 1: 141 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code. The periodic settlement clause is, as it were, resolved in a final settlement (Parliamentary Documents II 2001/02, 27 554 No. 5, p. 12). This settlement obligation is governed by Articles 1: 141 to 1: 143 of the Dutch Civil Code.

The balance, present on the reference date, arising from investment and reinvestment of that which has not been settled, as well as the fruits thereof (Article 1: 141 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code) must therefore be settled. In doing so, it must be assumed that the assets present at the end of the marriage are formed from what should have been settled (Article 1: 141 paragraph 3 of the Dutch Civil Code), unless the requirements of reasonableness and fairness in light of the nature and the scope of the setoff obligation follows differently.

According to the Supreme Court (HR 8 June 2012, NJ 2012, 365), this “unless clause” must be interpreted strictly, in the sense that it is not intended as a general fairness test on the result of the application of the presumption of evidence. The presumption of evidence only relates to the question whether or not the available capital was financed with what should have been settled. According to the Supreme Court, this also applies to the exception, the “unless clause”, to that.

If the presumption of evidence applies, spouses are obliged to each other to provide a description of the property. Art. 1: 143 BW applies mutatis mutandis (Article 1: 141 paragraph 3 BW).

One of the consequences of this presumption of proof is that a spouse who states that part of the assets should not be included in the set-off) will have to demonstrate this (Supreme Court, February 3, 2017 ECLI: NL: HR: 2017: 161.

With due observance of the above, the court will discuss the assets of the parties below.

The land and the villa in Spain and the associated mortgage loan.

Jurisdiction

Since the villa and apartment are located in Spain, it is necessary to test against Article 2 4 (recast) EEX Regulation. It follows that the Dutch court has no jurisdiction with regard to the (manner of) distribution if the villa and the apartment belong to parties in common ownership.

Also important is Article 2 2 (recast) EEX Regulation. This article establishes exclusive jurisdiction for

(i) rights in rem to immovable property,

(ii) rental and rental of real estate and

(iii) renting and leasing of real estate.

If this is the case and the real estate is not located in the Netherlands, the Dutch court has no jurisdiction in disputes.

According to settled case law of the European Court of Justice, this provision must be interpreted restrictively (CJEU 10 January 1990, NJ 1991/572). For the applicability of art. 22 under 1 EEX Regulation, insofar as relevant here, requires that the legal action be based on a real right in respect of a property and not on a personal right. The difference between a real right and a personal right is that a real right has effect against everyone, while a personal right can only be enforced against the debtor (cf. ECJ 9 June 1994, case C-292/93, Jur. 1994, p. L-2535, LJN AC0939, NJ 1994/649 (Lieber / Göbel) The nullification and / or performance of obligatory legal acts, even if these are related to real estate rights, are in principle not covered below.

The court finds that the requests of the parties relate to the settlement of the matrimonial property, the mutual obligation to pay debts concerning the property in Spain and the distribution of the rental income regarding the property in Spain. Even if this would have consequences for the property right to the property, it is based on a personal right that the parties can only assert against each other (HR 18 March 2011, NJ 2011 no. 219). The court therefore considers itself competent to decide on all requests related to the property in Spain, with the exception of requests for (manner of) distribution.

Soil

2.3.10.
The man has stated that the land of the villa is his property; this is to his name and was purchased with the man's equity. The man has sold two houses that he already owned before the parties were married and with the proceeds of € 293,370 he bought the land. The proceeds concern pre-marital wealth and should therefore not be regarded as saved income.

2.3.11.
The wife has disputed the husband's view that the land was bought with pre-marital property.

By submitting the deed of purchase and sale of the house in [place house 1] and the deed of sale of the house in [place house 2], the man has not demonstrated that he used the proceeds of the sale to finance the land in Spain . It is not clear whether the aforementioned homes were subject to a mortgage and whether these mortgages were repaid with saved income during the marriage.

2.3.12.
The court considers as follows:

The court is of the opinion that production 36 on the part of the man shows that on 29 December 1997 the man bought the land in his name in Spain. The man therefore owns the land. The fact that the deed of purchase wrongly states that the parties are married in community property does not mean that the land is therefore common, now that the parties are married under prenuptial agreement.

For the purchase amount, the court assumes the amount stated in the final deed of purchase, being 7,000,000 Pesetas.

With regard to the financing of the land, the court considers as follows:

According to the man, the land was financed with the proceeds from the sale of two houses, which the man already owned before the marriage.

The man has demonstrated that in 1979 he bought a house in [place house 1] for

Fl. 117.500, =, which he sold for Fl. 141,500. According to the man, the house was purchased with a full mortgage and this mortgage was still Fl. 60,000.

Furthermore, the man has shown that in 1989 he bought a house in [place house 2] for Fl. 160,000 which he sold on September 1, 1997 for Fl. 505,000. According to the man, he also bought this house with a mortgage and partly from an inheritance from his parents. From the letter of November 11, 1988 it appears that the man from the inheritance received Fl. 57,327.

The woman has stated that the man has not shown that he purchased the land in Spain with private assets. In this context, the woman has also argued that mortgages relating to premarital homes may also have been repaid during marriage with excess income, and then the proceeds of the sale also partly belong to the assets to be settled.

The court agrees with the woman that the man has not shown that he invested with private assets in the purchase of the land in Spain.

From the productions 39 to 41, 53 and 54 submitted by the man, no direct cash flow can be deduced between the man's pre-marital property and the purchase of the land in Spain, so that the purchase amount is presumed to have been paid from saved and so the power to be settled.

Villa

2.3.13.
The man believes that the villa belongs to him completely. The proceeds from the sale of the villa therefore fully belong to the man.

Two mortgages have been taken out for the construction of the villa. The mortgages are in the name of both parties and they are jointly and severally liable. The man has paid the mortgage and other costs for the villa, to the exclusion of the woman. The monthly payments mainly consist of interest payments.

The man repaid twice on the mortgages. Once from an inheritance from his brother and once from a severance payment in 2007. The part of the inheritance of € 47,028.00 does not belong to the deductible assets.

Virtually no monthly repayments have been made. The man understands that the monthly payments are considered to have been made from excess income. The man states that there has already been some form of interim settlement. The woman never contributed (indirectly) to the repayment of the mortgages. The investments that the man has made in the villa come from assets that are not eligible for setoff.

Primarily, the husband is of the opinion that the villa should not be included in the set-off / distribution, but that it should be the husband's exclusion.

In the alternative, insofar as the villa should be included in the distribution / settlement, the man states the following. The villa is for sale for € 790,000 with a minimum sales price of € 650,000. Of the proceeds of the sale, the man first owes the investments from the sale of premarital homes of € 293,370.00, the inheritance of his brother of € 47,028.00 and 1/3 of the severance pay, namely € 146,861.12. In total an amount of € 487,259.12. With the remaining proceeds, the mortgages of € 145,006 must be paid off, after which € 17,734 remains for the time being. The man believes that the sales costs and Spanish taxes should be borne in half. The man estimates that there will be a residual debt. Parties must share / bear the residual surplus value or residual debt.

Insofar as the severance pay is regarded as deductible capital, the man is of the opinion that 1/3 of the linked part of the severance pay should be excluded from the settlement with the sale proceeds.

In the alternative, the husband requests to share the equity / net worth, after deduction of the husband's investments.

2.3.14.
The woman does not know whether the villa is owned by the man or joint property. The woman has disputed that the husband has repaid part of the mortgage linked to the villa with an inheritance from his brother, now that the man has not demonstrated this.

Furthermore, the woman has disputed that the husband has repaid part of the mortgages with a severance payment. According to the woman, the part of the severance payment that remained after payment of the costs of the joint household under Article 8 in conjunction with Article 5 of the prenuptial agreement, to be set off, was excess income. In addition, the man has not demonstrated that he paid off with the severance pay.

The wife does not understand what the husband means by saying that he has released part of the pre-pension and used it to pay for the costs of the household.

2.3.15.
The court considers as follows:

It is established that the land is the property of the man. In the deed regarding the purchase of the land, the notary wrongly assumes that the parties have been married in community of property and that is being built on in the deed relating to the construction of the villa, the so-called statement of new construction in construction dated November 2, 1999. The court refers to the translation submitted by the man as Exhibits 18 and 37. The notary's premise is incorrect. The parties were not married in community property and as a result, contrary to the notary's assumption, the ground did not fall into the community.

Under Dutch law, the house built on the ground would be owned by the man by drawing. The question whether the house is owned by the man after drawing must be answered under Spanish law under Article 10: 127 of the Dutch Civil Code.

The parties have not expressed themselves whether the villa is owned by the man under Spanish law or joint ownership. The court will give the parties the opportunity to comment on this in more detail.

If there is also an investigation under Spanish law, the question is whether invested with saved income in the house that is owned by the man.

If the house is jointly owned under Spanish law, the court is not authorized to comment on the (manner of) distribution. The court is authorized to assess whether the man with private assets has invested in the villa. The man would then have a right to compensation.

For further settlement it is therefore important to determine whether the land and villa are exclusively owned by the man or whether there is joint ownership. In the first case, the man is free to sell the house and must settle the value with the woman as of 12 April 2016, if the house has been invested with saved income. If the parties' homes are common, the court must assess whether the man has invested in the home with private assets. The man then has a right to compensation. This would mean that if the villa is sold, parties will have to take this fee into account in the further settlement.

With regard to investments in the home, the court considers as follows:

It is undisputed that the construction of the villa has been financed with two mortgages, in the name of both parties, with number [mortgage number 1] and [mortgage number 2].

The mortgage with number ending on [mortgage number 1] was contracted on November 2, 1999. An amount of € 240,404.84 was borrowed. The court deduces this from production 7 of the man. The mortgage with number ending on [mortgage number 2] was contracted on March 27, 2007. An amount of € 260,000 has been borrowed.

For the follow-up to the assessment, it is important whether the man repaid with mortgages or with private assets.

The man has submitted documents showing that on 1 May 2007 the mortgage ending on [mortgage number 2] was fully repaid. The court refers to the man's production 40. The man initially states that he has invested 1/3 of the severance pay of € 445,033.69, which is € 146,861.12, in the villa. By letter of July 19, 2019, the man stated that he paid off the mortgage with € 259,861.72, partly from the severance pay, with € 231,751.89.

Exhibit 9 shows that the man received a check in the amount of € 445,033.69 in connection with the severance pay. Exhibit 56 shows that this check has been cashed and that an amount of € 445,033.69 has been deposited into account number [account number 1]. On May 2, 2007, an amount of € 232,000 was transferred to account number [account number 2]. It then appears that this account was repaid on the mortgage with number [mortgage number 2] with an amount of € 231,751.89.

In view of the cash flow and the balance on the aforementioned account before and after the transfers, the man has made it sufficiently plausible that he

€ 231,751.89 repaid from the severance pay. Below, the court will discuss whether the severance payment should be regarded as deductible income.

The remainder of € 28,248.11 that was repaid on 1 May 2007, of which the man has not demonstrated that it was paid from the severance payment, is presumed to have been paid out of saved income.

The man states that he has further deposited an amount in a “paragé”, and that the amount has been increased with interest, after which he on 31 December 2008 on the mortgage ending on [mortgage number 1] an amount of € 23,057.82 and € 5,052 , 01 has paid off.

The overview of the mortgage ending in [mortgage number 1] does not show that the amount paid by the man was repaid in 2008, so that the man's claim on this point has not been made plausible.

Furthermore, it appears from Exhibit 41 that the mortgage ending on [mortgage number 1] was repaid monthly from 1 September 2001, even after the reference date. According to the man, on April 1, 2007, an amount of € 113,224.54 was used from his severance payment to repay this mortgage.

The court is of the opinion that the redemption on April 1, 2007 cannot be paid out of the severance payment now that the man only received it on April 30, 2007 or May 1, 2007. The court therefore assumes that this repayment has been made from saved income. The balance of this mortgage on the reference date was € 151,193.04 (production 41 of the man). Since it has not become apparent that the man with private assets has repaid on this loan, it must be assumed that on balance date an amount of

€ 89,211.80 on the mortgage was repaid from saved income.

Severance pay

2.3.16.
The man is primarily of the opinion that the severance payment should be completely excluded from the settlement, since the severance payment does not fall under the income concept agreed by the parties in Article 5 of the prenuptial agreement. It does not concern profit from an enterprise, pure income from labor or capital or profit from a substantial interest.

In the alternative, the man states that only a part of € 158,628 is eligible for setoff. The man was unemployed for a period after the discharge.

In that period, he received unemployment benefits totaling € 21,372. Prior to his dismissal, the man had an income of € 10,000 gross per month. If the man had still been employed by DSM during those 1.5 years, he would have received an income of € 180,000. After deduction of the unemployment benefit, there was a shortfall of € 158,628 for which the severance payment had to be used.

The remainder of the severance payment of € 286,405.69 is to be regarded partly as goodwill and partly as compensation for the fact that the man was not allowed to use his knowledge in the same sector for two years. It is not eligible for setoff because this is linked to man ex Article 1:94 BW.

2.3.17.
Insofar as part of the severance payment can be regarded as goodwill, the woman disputes that this part would not be eligible for setoff on the grounds of Section 1:94 (5) of the Dutch Civil Code. This article refers to a community of goods and therefore does not apply. According to the woman, the entire severance pay should be included in the setoff because the severance pay, regardless of its nature, is to be settled (saved). The woman also stated that the man received a Spanish unemployment benefit of € 9,522.24 in 2007 and of € 14,064.96 in 2008 (referring to the production submitted by the man 29). The woman has not disputed that the parties have used the severance payment to supplement the unemployment benefit.

2.3.18.
With regard to the severance pay, the court considers as follows.

From the document statement and final discharge submitted by the man as Exhibit 21, it appears that the man has received a severance payment of € 423,575.89. Partly in view of the fact that part of the severance pay was actually used to supplement the unemployment benefit, the court assumes that the severance pay served to compensate for lost earnings.

It must be checked whether the severance payment falls under the income concept as defined in the prenuptial agreement.

Parties have used a broad concept of income in their prenuptial agreement. They have committed to offset each other the balance of their net income after deduction of that which has been spent for the joint household. This means that the net severance payment at the end of the calendar year in which tax was paid is in principle fully eligible for setoff. The fact that this case concerns a severance payment paid in Spain on which no tax was payable in Spain does not change that.

Now that the man has received unemployment benefits in 2007 and 2008 of € 9,522.24 gross and € 14,064.96 gross respectively (production 29 of the man) and the man has undisputedly stated that his income at DSM is approximately € 10,000 gross per month, an amount of € 166,412.80 (60,477.76 for the period 1 May through 31 December 2007 and € 105,935.04 for the whole of 2008) was spent in that period to supplement the unemployment benefit. Parties have actually used this part of the severance payment.

As previously considered, an amount of € 231,751.89 was used to repay the mortgage. The woman was entitled to half this amount. Now that the villa has been invested with deductible income, the villa must in any case be included in the settlement for that amount, assuming that the villa is owned by the man. Of the total amount of the severance payment of € 423,575.89, there remains (423,575.89 - 231,751.89 - € 166,412.80 =) € 25,411.20. The woman is entitled to half of this amount, that is to say € 12,705.60.

Heritage

2.3.19.
The man also stated that he received an amount of € 47,028 from his brother's inheritance in 2010, which he also used to repay the mortgage attached to the villa.

The court is of the opinion that in production 8 of the man, the deed of distribution, it appears that on 25 May 2011, after settlement of an advance received of € 14,000 and settlement of the car, the man is due an amount of € 31,027. 68. The man has not made it plausible that he used this amount to pay off the mortgage.

Bonuses

Insofar as the man has stated that he has repaid on (one of) the mortgages with money from bonuses, the court is of the opinion that a bonus falls within the income concept of Article 5 of the prenuptial agreement. Insofar as this has not been used to cover the costs of the household, the court considers this to be excess savings that can be set off.

Conclusion

On the basis of the above considerations, the court concludes that the man has not demonstrated that he invested in the villa with private capital. This means that, if the villa belongs only to the man who owns it, the mortgage payments must be included in the settlement of the value of the villa in an amount of € 349,211.80 (231,751.89 + 89,211.80 + 28,248.11) in total. are involved.

If the villa is jointly owned, the court has no jurisdiction to hear the dispute.

The court will give the parties the opportunity to comment on whether the villa is the property of the man under Spanish law. Parties must also comment on the value of the villa on the reference date, which is April 12, 2016.

User owner charges and mortgage repayment

2.3.20.
Primarily, the man is of the opinion that the owner and user charges are for his account.

Insofar as the court is of the opinion that the villa is jointly owned, the husband alternatively requests that the wife be sentenced to pay half of the owner's and user's costs up to the sale and delivery of the home.

The man has stated that after the reference date he only paid off € 47,980.34 on the mortgage, so that he has a compensation claim.

2.3.21.
The woman has argued that the fact that the husband paid the owner's expenses, including the mortgage payments, is irrelevant, as these were costs of the joint household. These charges are not eligible for setoff.

According to the woman, the man has neither stated, nor substantiated, that he paid the repayment after the reference date from his private assets.

2.3.22.
Insofar as the husband has stated that he only took care of the costs associated with the villa during the marriage, the court is of the opinion that the costs associated with the villa fall within the costs for the household.

It is also important here that it is first determined whether the villa belongs to parties in joint ownership or whether the villa is the sole property of the man.

In the first case, parties under Dutch law must each bear half of the costs after the reference date. Now that the property is subject to Spanish law, the parties must inform the court about the applicable Spanish provisions regarding the charges in case of joint ownership. In the second case, these charges are borne only by the man.

With regard to the repayment of the mortgage / withdrawal from the mortgage after the reference date, the court considers as follows.

The documents show that in July 2016 € 30,000 was taken out of the mortgage ending in number [mortgage number 2]. Subsequently, this mortgage was repaid monthly.

The mortgage ending with number [mortgage number 1] has also been repaid monthly after the reference date.

The man has withdrawn € 30,000 after the reference date. This recording should not be taken into account in the settlement. If the villa is jointly owned by the parties, the court is of the opinion that it must be assumed that the repayments made by the man after the reference date are deemed to have been made on the original mortgage loan and from his private property. The woman has neither stated nor demonstrated that she repaid on one of the mortgages after the reference date. If the villa is a common property and the mortgages are in both names, the man has a right to compensation. The man requests a nominal allowance.

When selling the villa, the man would therefore be entitled to a right of compensation for the repayments after the reference date on the mortgage debt at the time of the reference date. In other words: he must repay the amounts taken up by the man after the reference date.

If the villa only belongs to the man, he is also obliged to pay the mortgage payment from the reference date.

The man must submit an up-to-date - with a modest substantiated - overview of the owner's and usage costs paid by him, as well as of the mortgage repayments made by him (by submitting sound (bank) documents).

Rental income

2.3.23.
The woman is entitled to half of the rental income received by the man.

2.3.24.
The man is primarily of the opinion that the villa and the income do not form part of the assets to be settled. Insofar as the income must be settled, the husband believes that the woman should be sentenced to pay the owner's and user's costs halfway up to the sale of the villa.

2.3.25.
The court assumes that the portion of the rental income that remained after deduction of the costs of the villa before the reference date was used to pay the costs of the household. These revenues have not been shown to have been saved. The court will therefore reject the woman's request on this point.

Now that the property is subject to Spanish law, the parties must inform the court of the applicable Spanish provisions regarding rental income, in case of joint ownership. In that case, the man must also provide an updated - with modestly substantiated - overview of the rental income.

Legal costs

2.3.26.
The husband has requested that the wife should contribute to the debt that has arisen in Spain through a lawsuit concerning the villa of € 9,263.37, if the villa is jointly owned.

2.3.27.
The woman has taken the view that the Spanish-language documents are incomplete, so that the Dutch translations are also incomplete.

2.3.28.
The costs incurred by the man for the lawsuit in Spain in connection with the villa amounting to € 9,263.37 in total relate to an account dated 4 April 2016. These are costs prior to the reference date. Only in case the villa belongs to the parties in common ownership and under Spanish law such costs must be borne by the parties each half, it is relevant to know when the bill has been paid. If this happened after the reference date, the woman should pay half of the costs. The court requests the parties to inform it of the applicable provisions of Spanish law. The man must provide proof of the date of payment of the bill.

The court has not gained insight into the content of the judgment of the court. The man must provide the full sentence and a full translation of the sentence, so that the court can check whether the parties or the man has / has a claim against the other party under this sentence.

Value land and villa

The documents show that the villa is already for sale.

The court requests the parties to inform the court about the state of affairs regarding the sale. If the villa has already been sold, the court will request the parties to inform it of the further settlement, with due observance of the above considerations regarding the property (only of the man or joint property).

The apartment in Spain.

2.3.29.
The man has argued that parties in common ownership have an apartment in [place apartment] Spain. The apartment is for sale for € 95,000.

The land was bought by the man with part of the severance pay. Then the land, with the plan to build an apartment complex, was sold for approx

€ 100,000. The man has invested approximately € 140,000 from his severance pay. The man is primarily of the opinion that the severance payment is entirely due to him, so that after the sale of the proceeds the investment is first allocated to the man and that the remainder, after deduction of sales costs and Spanish profit tax, is allocated to each of the parties in half. is imputed.

With regard to the apartment, costs have been incurred in connection with a lawsuit. The man is of the opinion that each of the parties should bear the costs of € 9,963.18 in halves.

The husband requests that the woman be sentenced to contribute in half to these costs.

In addition, the owner's costs / maintenance costs, municipal taxes and notary costs must be paid up to the date of sale at half. Until the reference date, the costs have been paid from saved income. After the reference date of 12 April 2016, this is no longer the case, so that as of the reference date the woman is obliged to pay half of the owner's / user's expenses of € 1,000 per year.

After the investment of the man, the legal costs, the sales costs (and owners / user charges), half of the remainder of the sales proceeds accrues to the woman.

2.3.30.
The woman is of the opinion that the land on which the apartment is built is only in the name of the man and that the apartment therefore does not belong to parties in joint ownership. The man is said to have financed the purchase from his severance pay. The woman is of the opinion that what remained of the severance pay after payment of the household costs was deductible income to be settled.

The woman has requested that the value of the apartment be settled between the parties on the reference date and that she is thus entitled to half of the net value.

Assuming the apartment is only the husband's, the wife is not required to contribute half of the owner's and user's expenses.

The documents submitted by the man concerning a lawsuit in Spain cannot serve as evidence to support the man's allegation. Moreover, the woman has never been involved in the lawsuit.

2.3.31.
The court considers as follows:

As productions 24/30, partial translations of deeds or one deed have been submitted by the man. It is not clear to the court what these deeds relate to. It appears that the woman acquired a parcel of land in 2006. Furthermore, production 31 was submitted, from which it appears that it follows that the man and the woman acquired a parcel in [place parcel] in common ownership by exchange on 29 March 2007. The deed also shows that this plot is adjacent to a plot that belongs to the woman. As Exhibit 13, the man submitted a Spanish-language deed. The translation of this deed was presented as Exhibit 32. This shows that the man and the woman own a plot in the place [place plot] indicated in the land register with number 41. The plot was exchanged on August 6, 2008 for two storage spaces and a garage where the acquirer of the land undertook to finish the apartments. It is clear from the submitted extract from the property register (register property 4475) that it has been wrongly registered that the parties jointly own the parcel acquired by the woman in 2006 because it was (incorrectly) assumed that she was “in a community of profit and loss. Were married. It appears from the extract from the property register (register property 4475) that it was also assumed that the parties jointly owned the plot on which the apartments would be built because they were married in community of profit and loss. This is not correct, but the deed (Exhibit 32) does show that the man and the woman acquired the parcel together. Finally, part 44 of a judgment of the court of first instance of Puertolliano dated 9 September 2014 was submitted by the man as Exhibit 44.

For the time being, the court concludes from this that the parties jointly own the apartment and the subsurface and that the woman also owns a piece of land adjacent to the plot on which the apartments are built.

If the apartment is jointly owned by the parties, the court is not authorized to decide on the (method of) distribution.

The court requests the parties to comment on the correctness of this preliminary conclusion. The court understands that the apartment is for sale. It is not clear whether this also applies to the adjacent piece of land owned by the woman. Parties are requested to comment on this. If this is not the case, the value of the land will have to be included in the settlement, now that it is assumed that this land has been acquired with saved income.

The court is of the opinion that the costs of the apartment until the reference date are deemed to have been paid by way of household costs. Assuming that the apartment is jointly owned by the parties, the parties still have to inform the court about the applicable Spanish legal provisions regarding the (distribution of) the charges.

The man will have to provide the woman with sound and modest evidence of the costs he has incurred from the reference date. The court has not gained insight into the content of the judgment of the court. The man must provide the full verdict and a full translation of the verdict so that the court can check whether the parties still have a claim against the other party under this verdict.

The man has indicated that the value of the apartment can be determined at € 95,000, but that he is willing to cooperate with an appraisal. The man has indicated that he can agree to the woman arranging the valuation, provided that the costs are shared.

The court requests the parties to inform the court about the state of affairs regarding the sale. If the apartment has already been sold, the court will request the parties to inform it of the further settlement, taking into account the above considerations.

Life insurance / annuities.

2.3.32.
The man has stated that life insurance and annuities remain outside the community in accordance with Article 7 of the prenuptial agreement. The man primarily believes that everyone will keep the account in his or her name, without any further settlement.

Insofar as there should be set-off, the husband is of the opinion that the life insurance policies and annuities registered in the woman's name should also be settled.

The premarital life insurance of the man at [policy number life insurance man 1] (production 52 of the man) should in any case be disregarded.

Furthermore, the man has the following insurance to his name:

la Caixa PlanCaixa futuro [insurance 1 man]

la Caixa PlanCaixa [insurance 2 men]

la Caixa PlanCaixa gran premio [insurance 3 men]

la Caixa PlanCaixa invest [insurance 4 man]

la Caixa PlanCaixa [5 man insurance]

The man stated at the hearing that it follows from Article 7 of the prenuptial agreement that there is an exclusion from each community, that each of the parties has invested in his own life insurance and that this remains private property.

2.3.33.
The woman disputes this. The woman is of the opinion that if any excess income to be offset has been used to pay the premiums / single premiums, then (part of) the value should be offset. The man has not stated anything about this, so that the value of all life insurance and annuities must be settled on the reference date.

The woman stated at the hearing that Article 7 of the prenuptial agreement is irrelevant, now that the husband has purchased annuities with saved income or with money taken out from the flexible mortgage. The annuities that are registered in the man's name must be settled. The woman wonders whether the man has provided all the insurance.

The woman has indicated that there are two life insurance policies / annuities to her name:

La Caixa Plan Caixa [insurance 1 woman] and

La Caixa Plan Caixa bolsa euro [insurance 2 woman].

The woman cannot substantiate this with documents.

The woman is of the opinion that the man has not provided documents of the value on the reference date of all life insurance and annuities in his name, both in Spain and in the Netherlands. Nor has he demonstrated that these are not financed with excess income to be settled. The value must therefore be settled, whereby each of the parties is entitled to half.

2.3.34.
The court considers as follows:

With regard to the life insurance policy at Woudsend with policy number [policy number life insurance man 2], it follows from production 52 on the part of the man that he took out and paid for it before marriage. This policy was extended at the ASR in 2010. The court is of the opinion that this policy falls outside the distribution and set-off.

Parties have agreed in Article 7 of the prenuptial agreement:

"Premiums and single premiums for life insurance (including accident insurance) are borne by the spouse who has concluded the insurance contract"

Now that none of the parties has demonstrated how the premiums and single premiums have been paid, it must be assumed that they were paid from excess income.

As production 19, the man submitted the following Pension and Provision plans:

Caixabank contract number [pension plan 1], value on February 17, 2019 € 14,467.29

Caixabank contract number [pension plan 2], value on February 17, 2019 € 10,493.48

Caixabank contract number [insurance 4 man], value on February 17, 2019 € 10,930.61

Caixabank contract number [insurance 2 man], value on February 17, 2019 € 31,130.59

That means the following:

The woman likes:

La Caixa Plan Caixa [insurance 1 woman] and

La Caixa Plan Caixa bolsa euro [insurance 2 woman],

but must settle the value of the policies with the man on the reference date (12 April 2016).

The man likes:

ASR [policy number life insurance man 1], la Caixa PlanCaixa futuro [insurance 1 man]

la Caixa PlanCaixa [insurance 2 men]

la Caixa PlanCaixa gran premio [insurance 3 men]

la Caixa PlanCaixa invest [insurance 4 man]

la Caixa PlanCaixa [5 man insurance]

but must settle the value as of the reference date (April 12, 2016) with the woman.

The court requests the parties to provide a statement of the values ​​on the reference date (12 April 2016) and to inform it of the tax consequences of the surrender of life insurance / annuities (taxes and revisionary interest) and which tax regime applies (Dutch or Spanish).

Pay and savings accounts.

2.3.35.
The man has primarily stated that the parties have already divided the accounts and have nothing more to claim from each other in this respect.

The man has argued that the parties still have a joint account at La Caixa with number [number joint account man and woman]. Each of the parties has half of the balance on the reference date. As for the man, the bill can be closed.

The man has the following bank accounts to his name:

[bank account number man 1] with a balance on the reference date of € 1,277.99 (production 47 of the man);

[bank account number man 2] with a balance on the reference date of € 390.37 (production 48 of the man);

[account number 1] with a balance on the reference date of € 161.22 (production 50 of the man).

2.3.36.
The woman requests that the balances in the bank accounts be settled in the name of one of the parties on the reference date, in the sense that each of the parties is entitled to half of the balance thereof. With regard to the and / or bank accounts, the balance on the reference date must be divided in half.

The woman disputes that the balances have already been distributed.

On the reference date, the woman had two bank accounts to her name:

[bank account number of woman 1] with a negative balance of € 491.55 (appendix 4 of the woman);

[bank account number woman 2] with a negative balance of € 148.26 (ditto).

The woman has doubts about the balance of his bank accounts put by the man and whether he has given full disclosure.

2.3.37.
The court requests the parties to submit the 2016 tax returns so that the court can obtain an overview of all bank accounts.

In the asset description to be drawn up by each of the parties, the man must include the bank balances on the reference date of his bank accounts and the woman that of her bank accounts.

The court is of the opinion that the balance of the and / or account [number of joint account for men and women] should be divided in half on the reference date of € 868.37 (Exhibit 49).

Loan from man to woman.

2.3.38.
The man has stated that he has loaned an amount of € 5,000 to the woman. The parties have drawn up an agreement for this. In order to settle the restricted community, the woman must pay this amount to the man within one month of the decision to be made.

The man has disputed that the woman has compensated the man's loan after the reference date. Now that the woman has not disputed the existence of a loan agreement, that is certain in the opinion of the man. The payments made by the woman do not relate to a loan repayment.

2.3.39.
The woman has primarily contested that she borrowed money from the man. The woman would not know why she would have borrowed € 5,000 from the man. The man has also not shown that he has transferred an amount of € 5,000 to her. Insofar as the man states that he paid for her, the woman has argued that she has also paid various things for the man.

By letter of July 22, 2019, the woman indicated that she had signed the man for the money as if it were borrowed. According to the woman, it concerns the money that is shared by the parties.

2.3.40.
The statement signed by the woman shows that the woman borrowed an amount of € 5,000 from the man on April 29, 2016, therefore after the reference date. According to the woman, this is common money. The court is of the opinion that the man has not shown that he paid this money from private property to the woman. Now that the man has not made the money stream transparent, the court holds that this has been paid out of saved income, to which half of the parties were entitled. Insofar as the woman has stated that she made various payments after the reference date that offset the loan, the court is of the opinion that this cannot be deduced from the bank statements that have not been translated by the woman. The court assumes that the parties have already taken an advance on the settlement with the payment of an amount of € 5,000 so that the amount must be included in the settlement in this way.

Pension rights

2.3.41.
The woman requests equalization of pension rights. She argues that the prenuptial agreement has been drawn up before the Pension Equalization (Equalization) Act comes into effect. According to the woman, equalization takes place, unless parties have explicitly determined otherwise when drawing up the prenuptial agreement for divorce. That should be read literally. The mere fact that pension equalization is excluded is insufficient.

2.3.42.
The man is of the opinion that there is no question of pension equalization. Parties have agreed by prenuptial agreement that there will be no pension equalization at the end of the marriage. The husband believes that the parties should implement the prenuptial agreements concluded between them, so that the woman's request should be rejected. For the sake of completeness, the man notes that the parties have already agreed that they will not waive the entitlements to special partner's pension.

2.3.43.
The court considers as follows.

Article 11 of the Pension Rights Equalization Act (WVP) states:

“If, by prenuptial agreement made before the entry into force of this Act, the spouses have excluded or limited the general community of property between them, the equalization of pension rights under this Act shall take place, unless the spouses by prenuptial agreement or by written agreement with have expressly determined otherwise in view of the divorce. "

About art. 11 of the WFP, the Supreme Court ruled as follows:

“[3.4.2] (…) with the provision of art. 11 WFP that only then will no pension equalization take place in accordance with that law if the spouses have "expressly" stipulated otherwise in a prenuptial agreement or in a written agreement with a view to the divorce, [...] this refers to a provision that is explicitly the equalization of pension rights (cf. HR October 24, 1997, no. 8959, LJN ZC2473, NJ 1999/395), it being understood that it is not required that the parties in such a provision explicitly state the pension equalization as provided in the WVP have ruled out. Exclude from an "express" within the meaning of Art. 11 WFP can therefore also apply if the parties have stipulated in their prenuptial agreement with a view to a possible divorce that (certain) pension rights are not settled. (…). ” (see HR November 19, 2010, ECLI: NL: HR: 2010: BN7893).

Parties have determined in their prenuptial agreement in Article 13 as follows:

"There is no settlement of the value of entitlements to a pension that have already or have not started"

According to the woman, this is not an express exclusion.

As the parties disagree on the interpretation of this article, the explanation should be based on the Haviltex standard (HR 13 November 2015, ECLI: NL: HR: 2015: 3303). This criterion means that even if the interpretation of a contract is of great importance to the linguistic meaning of the chosen wording, the other circumstances of the case may entail that a different (than linguistic) meaning must be added to the provisions of the contract. attached. After all, it remains decisive what the parties could reasonably assign to these provisions in the given circumstances and what they could reasonably expect from each other in this respect (HR 5 April 2013, ECLI: NL: 2013: BY801).

Partly in the light of the aforementioned judgment of the Supreme Court, the court cannot conclude from the text of Article 13 of the prenuptial agreement that the parties had intended, with a view to a possible divorce, that the value of the and pension entitlements accrued during marriage are not settled. The woman has not put forward facts and circumstances from which it can be deduced that the parties intended something else. In view of the contention of her statements by the man, it would have been in the woman's way to further substantiate her position.

The court therefore rejects the woman's request.

2.4.
What now

2.4.1.
The court will give the parties the opportunity to provide further information about / to provide documents with regard to:

the ownership of the villa, the apartment and the land located next to the apartment (stating the relevant Spanish law articles, with translation, or by submitting a statement from a Spanish lawyer / notary with translation);

the applicable Spanish law if the villa and / or the apartment is jointly owned with regard to the distribution of the proceeds (surplus value) after sale, the distribution of the charges and the rental income;

the method of settlement, based on the situation that the man owns the villa ((method of) settlement of the value due to investments with saved income);

if the villa is jointly owned, the mortgage repayments made by the man after the reference date, properly substantiated, if necessary with translations;

if the villa is jointly owned, the rental income received by the man after the reference date and the costs paid by him since then, are properly substantiated and, if necessary, provided with translations;

the preliminary conclusion of the court that the apartment is jointly owned by the parties;

the state of affairs regarding the sale of the villa and the apartment;

the costs relating to the apartment paid by the man since the reference date, duly substantiated and, if necessary, provided with a translation;

the date of payment of the accounts relating to the procedures conducted in Spain (with supporting documents from the man);

the full translations of the judgments relating to the procedure conducted in Spain in order to determine whether the parties still have a claim (to be submitted by the man);

the value of the land and the method of settlement ((method of) settlement of the value due to investments with saved income);

the values ​​of the annuity insurance policies / single premiums on the reference date and the tax consequences of the settlement;

the 2016 tax returns.

With due observance of all the above considerations, each of the parties must then draw up a statement of the (deductible) capital on its side and a statement of the settlement items (rental income villa if jointly owned, costs paid in connection with the villa (if jointly owned) and the apartment (if jointly owned) after the reference date.

To this end, the court will hold the case until April 24, 2020 for the filing of both parties and then for four weeks in order to give the parties the opportunity to submit a deed of reply. The court will then consider whether a further oral hearing should be determined.

5 Decision
The court:

3.1.
stipulates that with effect from 1 September 2019, the man will have to pay an amount of € 705.84 per month to the young adult for maintenance and study, to be paid in advance in respect of future installments;

3.2.
gives parties the opportunity to comment further on as described above under 2.4.1. indicated and will hold the procedure to that effect until 24 April 2020 for the submission of further documents by both parties;

3.3.
gives the parties the opportunity to respond further to each other's deed by answer deed no later than 22 May 2020;

3.4.
declares the decision on subsistence and study allowance enforceable from stock;

3.5.
any further decision remains.

This decision was made by mr. W.Th.M. Raab, judge, and publicly pronounced in the presence of the registrar Mr. I.D. Bücker on March 26, 2020.

To the extent that a final decision has been made, an appeal may be lodged with the Court of Appeal in 's-Hertogenbosch through the intervention of a lawyer. The requesting party and interested parties to appear must file the appeal within three months of the date of the decision. Other interested parties must lodge the appeal within three months after the notification of this decision or after it has become known to them in another way and has been made publicly available in accordance with Article 820 paragraph 2 DCCP.