Pronunciation


COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Civil and Tax Law Department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case numbers: 200.224.321 / 01 and 200.224.321 / 02

Case number, court: C / 13/618652 / FA RK 16-7722

Multiple Chamber Order of 31 March 2020 on

[the man] ,

residing in [place of residence],

applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the man,

lawyer: E. Kocabas-Güler in Zoetermeer,

and

[the woman] ,

residing in [place of residence],

defendant on appeal,

further to be called: the woman,

lawyer: mr. M.B. Chylinska in Haarlem.

Stakeholders included:

- the minor [A], born [in] 2007 in [place of birth] (Poland) (hereinafter referred to as [child a]);

- the minor [B], born [in] 2010 in [place of birth] (hereinafter referred to as: [child b]).

The following has been designated as an informant: the certified institution for the Youth Protection Region of Amsterdam (hereinafter: the GI).

In his advisory role, the procedure includes:

the Child Protection Board,

established in The Hague, location Amsterdam,

hereinafter referred to as: the council.

1 Proceedings

1.1
The court issued a decision in this case on 2 October 2018. In that order, the Court of Appeal annulled the order of which the appeal has been lodged insofar as the divorce has been pronounced between the parties and has referred the parties to the district court in Gorzów Wielkopolski, Poland with regard to the request for divorce. In addition, the Court of Appeal has reserved the decision regarding the requests concerning the primary residence of the children and the contribution towards the costs of their care and upbringing until the jurisdiction of the Polish judge with regard to those ancillary provisions has been established. The hearing of the case has been held pro forma until March 31, 2019, with the instruction to the parties to comment on the points referred to in legal grounds 5.5.2 and 5.5.3 with regard to the principal residence and the contribution to the costs of care and education.

1.2
Afterwards, the following documents were received at the court:

- a journal message from the man of March 29, 2019 with attachments, received by fax on the same date;

- a journal message from the man of 12 July 2019 with attachments, received on 16 July 2019;

- a letter from the woman dated August 29, 2019 with an attachment, received August 30, 2019.

1.3
The oral hearing continued on September 4, 2019. An official report has been made of this. At the hearing, the Court of Appeal held the hearing of the case pro forma until October 6, 2019 and requested the Court to investigate and give advice on which primary residence and which care arrangement is most in the best interests of the children. to be. The Court of Appeal has also determined that a rapid information round will take place in the short term, during which the council will consult with the GI about the current state of affairs and whether a protection investigation or any other interventions are indicated. The council has been requested to inform the court about this within two weeks. The lawyers of the parties have been given the opportunity to respond to the information provided by the Board.

1.4
Afterwards, the following documents were received at the court:

- a letter from the Board of 1 October 2019, received on 7 October 2019;

- a journal message from the man of October 25, 2019 with an attachment, received on the same date;

- a journal message from the woman of 6 November 2019, received on the same date;

- a report from the board of November 15, 2019, received on November 19, 2019;

- a letter from the Board of January 24, 2020 with appendices, received on January 29, 2020.

1.5
By the aforementioned journal notice of 25 October 2019, the man requested, pursuant to Article 223 of the Civil Code of Legal Procedure (hereinafter: Rv), that the children keep their primary residence with him for the time being, whereby the parties are obliged to cooperate with the assistance provided, this under penalty of a penalty of € 100 per day that one of the parties refuses assistance (case number 200.224.321 / 02).

1.6
The oral hearing of the appeal continued on February 24, 2020, at the same time as the request for interim relief was processed. Published are:

- the man, assisted by mr. T. Kocabas, lawyer in Zoetermeer (acting for mr. E. Kocabas-Güler);

- the woman, assisted by her lawyer;

- the GI, represented by the family manager;

- the council, represented by Mrs. D. van Dijk;

- Mrs. E.K. Osuch, interpreter in the Polish language for women.

At the hearing, the GI submitted two documents, namely an email from Altra and the draft treatment plan of [child a], both dated February 14, 2020.

1.7
Before the hearing, the chairman spoke with [child a] in the presence of the registrar. At the hearing, the chairman presented the content of this conversation in a businesslike manner.

2 Facts
2.1
By judgment of the district court in Gorzów Wielkopolski (Poland) of 1 March 2019, with amendment of the judgment of the district court in Gorzów Wielkopolski (Poland) of 23 February 2017, the Polish court has jurisdiction to hear the request for divorce and has no jurisdiction to hear requests for parental responsibility, in particular those relating to the determination of the primary residence of the children and the contribution to be paid in the costs of care and upbringing of the children.

2.2
The divorce was pronounced between the parties by order of the district court in Gorzów Wielkopolski (Poland) of 4 July 2019.

2.3
By order of the Amsterdam District Court of December 31, 2019, the children were placed under the supervision of the GI until June 13, 2020 and until March 13, 2020, an authorization was granted to place the children away from home with the man.

3 Appeal
3.1
From the judgment of the district court in Gorzów Wielkopolski (Poland) of 1 March 2019 mentioned above under 2.1, it appears that the Polish court has no jurisdiction to hear the requests regarding the primary residence of the children and to determine a contribution in the costs of care and education of the children. Now that the children are habitually resident in the Netherlands, the Dutch court has jurisdiction under Article 8 paragraph 1 of the Brussels II-bis Regulation. Pursuant to Article 15 paragraph 1 of the Hague Child Protection Convention 1996, Trb 1997, 299 (hereinafter: HKV 1996), the court will apply Dutch law.

In the case with case number 200.224.321 / 01

Primary residence

3.2
At the court, the question remains to which of the parties the primary residence of the children should be determined.

3.3
On November 15, 2019, the council issued a report in response to the authority and access investigation requested by the court. At that time, the Council has indicated that it is not (yet) able to advise on which primary residence and which care arrangement is most in the best interests of the children. First aid and contact recovery under the guidance of Altra or the Center for Relational Therapy must be deployed. It is possible that the parents can, in cooperation with the GI, come to an agreement on these points. If this does not work, the council is prepared to carry out a new investigation and issue advice after having been instructed to do so.

3.4
According to an email of February 14, 2020 to the parents of [X], affiliated with Altra, Altra advises that [child a] should not have any contact with the woman for the time being. He should be registered with the man as soon as possible so that he knows he can stay there. After that, individual therapy must first be started for him. Therapy can then take place between him and the father and him and the mother. Also for [child b], Altra recommends that he be enrolled with the father as soon as possible and enrolled at a school close to the father. After that, play or creative therapy must be started for him. [child b] can be at school with the mother every other week from Friday to Monday. From May 6, this could be extended to school every other day from Wednesday to Monday. Mediation discussions should no longer take place between the parents. This puts too much stress on both them and the children, Altra said.

3.5
At the appeal hearing on February 24, 2020, the man maintained his request to determine the primary residence of the children with him. The children are doing well with the man, they are doing well in school and the worries about them are decreasing. It is in everyone's interest that the perspective of the children is now established, also because the treatment for the children can only start when they have more rest. In addition, an incident occurred in early 2020, in which the woman took [child b] away from school, relying on a decision from 2017. Regarding the relationship between the woman and [child b], the husband finds Altra's structure schedule somewhat premature. First, treatment of [child b] must have started and frameworks must be set to ensure safety, the man said.

3.6
At the appeal hearing on February 24, 2020, the woman persisted in her view that the court rightly determined the primary residence of the children with her. The children have always had their home base with her. This situation must first be remedied, after which assistance can be deployed from that setting. The husband created the wrongful situation that the children stay with him without the wife's permission. The man used and twisted the January 2019 incident, while the assault has never been established. In addition, he frustrates any contact between the children and the woman, so that she has not seen the children for a year and a half. Finally, based on her experiences during the period when the parties still lived together, the woman has concerns about the husband's raising skills.

3.7
In addition to its report of 15 November 2019, the Board advised the appeal court of 24 February 2020, in addition to its report of 15 November 2019, to determine the primary residence of the children in the male. It is important that the children are given clarity and peace now that the term of the authorization for out-of-home placement for men has expired. The children have lived with the man for quite some time and it is not in their interest to break the continuity of this. The council, the GI and Altra are not concerned about the parenting situation in men. It is also the wish of the children to continue living with their father. It is important that the woman can give them emotional permission to stay there. From that situation, steps can be taken towards contact recovery and contact arrangements. Finally, the Board can agree with Altra's approach to handling.

4 Reasons of the Decision
3.8
The court considers, as necessary ex officio, as follows.

Parties jointly exercise custody of the children. In the case of [child b] this is because he was born in the Netherlands standing up. This follows from Article 16, paragraph 1, of the HKV 1996 in conjunction with Article 1: 251, paragraph 1, of the Dutch Civil Code (BW). It is not known to the court whether parties in Poland already had joint authority over the child [child a] born there, but that question may remain unanswered. If that was the case, they retained that joint authority after the move of the habitual residence (Article 16, paragraph 3, HKV 1996). If that was not the case, this joint authority has arisen from the moment that [child a] habitual residence was transferred to the Netherlands. This follows from Article 16 (4) of the HKV 1996 in conjunction with Article 1: 251 (1) of the Dutch Civil Code.

Pursuant to Section 1: 253a (2) of the Dutch Civil Code, the judge can, at the request of the parents or one of them, establish rules regarding the exercise of parental authority. This arrangement may include the decision of the parent with whom the child has his primary residence. The judge takes such a decision as he deems desirable in the best interests of the child.

3.9
The documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing on appeal show that the children have been burdened with adult problems for many years. After the factual split of parties in 2016/2017, Families First was deployed because the children were trapped between the parents and dealing with the man was problematic. The GI became involved in January 2019, after [child a] reported being beaten at home by his mother at school and by the police. On the advice of the GI, the children were (initially temporarily) placed with the man. Because the relationship between the woman and the children did not start, Eigen Plan was first deployed in the summer of 2019, followed by Altra. Altra has seen that the children are probably very damaged and traumatized, feel permanently unsafe, alert and tense, and need trauma treatment. Due to the great concerns about the children, the Council decided on 2 October 2019 to officially expand the authority and contact investigation requested by the court into a protection investigation. As a result of the ongoing hostilities between the parents and their effect on the children, they were placed under the supervision of the GI on December 13, 2019 and their stay with the man was formalized through a home placement authorization. At the appeal hearing on February 24, 2020, it appeared that the mediation talks between the parties have ended because they are causing too much stress and tension for the parties. Treatment of the children and individual therapy for the parents will be started soon. There is now (telephone) contact between the woman and [child b], which will be expanded by Altra and the GI to a large weekend arrangement in the short term. In the conversation with the chairman, [child a] has indicated that he does not (yet) want to contact his mother and that he wants to continue living with his father, together with [child b].

3.10
With the council, the Court of Appeal considers it important that there is clarity for the children about where they will live. In doing so, the court states that the decisive factor should be what is currently most desirable in the interests of the children, regardless of how the current situation has arisen. This is followed by what the woman has brought up about what she thinks is wrongful in which the husband has had the children taken away from her, whatever else she says.

In the opinion of the court, the best interests of the children in the given circumstances are best served by continuing the current situation. It has been found that the children benefit from the current rest and that they are doing better since they live with the man. The court also takes into account that there has been no contact between the woman and the children for a long time. The contact with [child b] has only recently started again and [child a] does not want to contact his mother (for the time being). In view of the foregoing, the court will determine the primary residence of the children in the man and annul the contested decision on this point. The Court of Appeal considers it important that the parents cooperate with Altra's plan, as set out above under 3.4. This means that the court assumes that the woman will grant permission to enroll [child b] in a school nearby with the man, since it is not in the interest of [child b] that he go so far every day school has to travel, and that the husband will participate in (building) the contact between the children and their mother.

Finally, the court considers that if the man maintains his concerns about Altra's plan expressed in court and thereby would not fully cooperate with Altra's plan, it could pose a developmental threat to the children, which could ultimately lead to their out-of-home placement. in a neutral place.

Child support

3.11
Another item to be discussed is the contribution to be paid by the husband to the wife in the costs of care and upbringing of the children, as requested by the wife and set by the court at € 195.50 per child per month with effect from 1 November 2016.

3.12
In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the wife, partly in view of the motivated contestation of the husband, has insufficiently stated with regard to the needs of the children and her own ability, now that she has failed to provide financial data, although that on her if the applicant was lying. In addition, insofar as the request pertains to the period from January 2019, it is also related to the fact that from that moment on the children actually stay with the man. The court will therefore reject the woman's request for payment of child maintenance by the man and annul the contested decision on this point.

3.13
According to settled case-law, a judge who reduces a maintenance obligation from a date prior to his decision, on the basis of what has been brought to trial, must assess to what extent a resulting repayment obligation can reasonably be accepted. This also applies to the appeal judge who reduces a maintenance obligation determined by the first judge. The man's interest in repayment is given. On the other hand, it is plausible that the woman will have used the child contributions received up to December 2018 for the benefit of the children. It is likely that the woman's income is lower than that of the man. Therefore, the court will decide that, insofar as the man has paid more and / or recovered more from him from 1 November 2016 to 31 December 2018 than follows from the present order, the contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the children until 31 December 2018, it will be determined on what has been paid and / or recovered from the man. This is different for the period from January 2019, now that it has not become plausible that from that moment on, the woman has spent expenses for the children, other than incidentally.

Litigation costs

3.14
Given the nature of the proceedings, the court sees no reason to order the woman to pay the legal costs, as requested by the husband. The costs will be compensated in the usual way, so that each party bears its own costs.

In the case with case number 200.224.321 / 02

3.15
The man has requested to make a provisional measure with regard to the primary residence of the children, as described in paragraph 1.5. At the appeal hearing on February 24, 2020, the man additionally requested that the woman provisionally determine that the woman will participate in the enrollment of [child b] at a school in the vicinity of the husband's home, failing which the court will man will grant replacement permission for this.

The woman believes that the man's request should be rejected.

3.16
Since this decision gives a final decision in the main action and a provision based on Article 223 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure can only apply for the duration of the appeal proceedings, this is the interest of the man in a decision on his request to take a temporary provision is missing. The court will therefore reject this request.

3.17
This leads to the next decision.

5 Decision

The Council:

in the case with case number 200.224.321 / 01:

annuls the order of which appeal, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court, and in so far re-disposed;

determines that the children will have their primary residence with the man as of today;

declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

Rejects the woman's preliminary request to establish a contribution to be paid by the man towards the costs of the care and upbringing of the children, it being understood that, insofar as the husband has paid the period from 1 November 2016 to 31 has paid more in December 2018 and / or has been recovered from him, the contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing of the children up to 31 December 2018 is determined on what has been paid by the man and / or has been recovered from him;

compensates the costs of the appeal in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

dismisses the more or otherwise requested on appeal, insofar as it has not been previously decided on appeal;

in the case with case number 200.224.321 / 02:

rejects the request to make an interim order.

This decision was made by mr. A.V.T. de Bie, mr. J.F Miedema and mr. M. Fiege, in the presence of the registrar, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on March 31, 2020.