Pronunciation


COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE HERTOGENBOSCH
Family and youth law team

case number 200.256.130 / 01

judgment of March 17, 2020

in the case of

[appellant],

residing in [place of residence],

appellant,

hereinafter referred to as the woman,

lawyer: mr. F.H. Kuiper in Heerlen,

against

[respondent],

residing in [place of residence],

intimidated,

hereinafter referred to as the man,

lawyer: mr. R.M.H.H. Tuinstra in Maastricht,

as a follow-up to the interim judgment of 10 December 2019 brought by the court in the appeal of the judgment of 21 November 2018 delivered by the Limburg court, Maastricht seat, under case number C / 03/244885 / HA ZA 18-7.

1 Proceedings
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

- the interim judgment of 10 December 2019 in which the court ordered a comparative hearing of the parties.

The hearing took place on January 8, 2020. The court has set a date for judgment. The court does justice to the above-mentioned documents and the documents of the first instance.

2 Facts
6.1.
This dispute concerns the explanation of art. 6.3. sub c (in connection with the other applicable articles) of the settlement agreement drawn up by the parties in July 2015 in the context of the settlement of the prenuptial agreement. It also concerns the woman's claim for restoration of the disadvantage she suffered.

6.2.
The court has determined the facts of this dispute. These facts, as established by the court, are also the starting point on appeal. In addition, a number of other facts, both stated on the one hand and not disputed on the other, are established between the parties. The court will provide an overview of the relevant facts below.

6.2.1.
Parties were married on July 11, 1985 after making prenuptial agreements.

6.2.2.
The woman filed for divorce on November 14, 2012.

6.2.3.
The divorce was pronounced between the parties by order of the Limburg District Court, Maastricht seat, on 4 September 2013. The divorce decision was entered in the civil registers on 30 September 2013.

6.2.4.
In the context of the settlement of the prenuptial agreement and the division of a simple community, the Limburg District Court has issued orders

November 5, 2014 and May 28, 2015. On January 28, 2015, the woman brought an interim appeal to this court of the (interim) decision of November 5, 2014.

6.2.5.
The parties reached an agreement on 3 July 2015 in the context of mediation about the settlement of the prenuptial agreement, the house and a maintenance arrangement. They have laid down the agreements in this regard in a settlement agreement. During the mediation, the parties were assisted by their (former) lawyers.

3 Scope of Dispute
6.2.5.1. The settlement agreement contains the following provisions:

"Article 1

Assigned to [the man] or belong to his assets (all according to reference date 31 December 2012, subject to the value of the life insurance policies as referred to under b in connection with the provisions of Article 6, and with reference to legal ground 2.3.12 in the order of the Limburg court of 5 November 2013 [the court understands here: 2014]):

a. The house [address], [postcode] in [place] (hereinafter: the house)

b. The rights with regard to the life insurance policies with ASR under Nos. [Life insurance policy ASR 1] and [life insurance policy ASR 2]

(...)

d. The warranty insurance with ASR number [ASR warranty insurance]

(...)

j. The debt on mortgage loans relating to the house mentioned under a.

(…)

Article 2

Allocation is attributed to or belonging to [the woman] (all according to reference date 31 December 2012 and with reference to ground 2.3.12 in the order of the Limburg District Court of 5 November 2013):

(…)

Article 4

The parties have agreed that [the man] has a debt due to excess or set-off towards [the woman]. The parties have also agreed that this debt will depend on the actual proceeds of the house when a sale is made before March 1, 2019 respectively. of the appraisal value of the house as of 1 March 2019 if the house has not yet been sold, and taking into account the residual debt at that time applicable to ASR. To this end, they have agreed on a variable settlement method in combination with a partner maintenance scheme as described in Article 5.

Article 5

5.1
From 1 September 2015, [the wife] will receive a gross maintenance amount of € 1,250 per month from [the husband], which amount will be deposited in her bank account on the 1st of the month. A fixed total maintenance has been agreed, which is paid in installments, being a partner maintenance amounting to a total of 36 x € 1,250 gross per month or € 45,000. This amount is partly based on the decision of the Limburg District Court of May 22, 2015, in which a need was determined on a gross basis of € 1,213. The amounts mentioned in this article are not indexed annually on the basis of art. 1: 402a BW.

5.2
In any event, the maintenance obligation of [the husband] ends definitively and irrevocably after the house has been sold, when [the husband] pays her share of the net sales proceeds to [the wife], whereby the remainder of the aforementioned amount of € 45,000 is also paid by [the man] to [the woman] as a one-off commutation maintenance. The maintenance obligation therefore runs until 1 September 2018 at the latest. Within a period of 6 months after that date, payment must be made between [the man] and [the woman] in the context of the transfer / settlement.

The agreement on maintenance duration and height stated in this provision cannot be changed; the period cannot be extended.

Article 6

6.1
The amount to be paid by [the man] to [the woman] in the context of the settlement of over-distribution / set-off is determined as follows:

6.2
If the house is sold before March 31, 2019: 50% of the net sales proceeds of the house minus the debt remaining on this house, taking into account the value / payment of the life insurance policies as stated in Article 1b at the time of sale and the expected profit distribution at that time. This amount will be increased by the difference between the amount of the total maintenance of € 45,000 referred to in Article 5 and the amounts paid by [the husband] to [the wife] by way of gross maintenance from 1 September 2015.

6.3
The residual debt balance is then determined on the basis of the following principles:

a) principal owed in respect of mortgage loans to ASR as of the transport date;

b) minus the then current value, in this case, the payment to be received from the pledged life insurance policies with ASR Levensverzekering NV under the numbers [life insurance policy ASR 2] and [life insurance policy ASR 1], including the profit distribution forming part thereof;

c) minus the principal amount of the U / G debt to [the company] of EUR 174,000.

6.4
If [the man] at that time paid a total of less than € 45,000 by way of maintenance, the amount to be settled will be increased by the difference between € 45,000 and the total of the amounts paid by [the man] by way of spousal maintenance. [the woman] were paid after September 1, 2015.

6.5
To avoid misunderstandings, an example case: Suppose the house is sold for an amount of € 500,000 on 1 September 2016 after 12 times an amount of € 1,250 partner maintenance has been paid, while the debt balance as referred to under 6.3 was EUR 214,612 at that time. , -.

Elaboration: [the man] then pays to [the woman] on the occasion of the execution of the notarial deed of delivery in connection with the sale of the house to a third party, an amount calculated as follows: 50% x (€ 500,000 - 214,612) + (€ 45,000 - (12 x € 1,250)) = € 157,694.

(...)

6.8.
No interest is payable on the amount to be calculated / payable by [the man] to [the woman] in accordance with this article.

(…)

Article 1 2

By signing this agreement, the parties declare that all matters relating to the implementation of the prenuptial agreement, the simple community (the house) and the maintenance have been arranged in full accordance with their wishes and declare that, after having performed the agreements described in this agreement, they and again have nothing to claim from each other and therefore give each other final discharge.

(…)

Article 1 4

The parties instruct their respective lawyers to terminate all current proceedings within 2 months after the signing of this settlement agreement and instruct the notary public [notary] at [place of employment] to draw up a notarial deed of distribution to confirm / execute these agreements as soon as possible. The present agreement may then be annexed to this division act. "

6.2.6.
In accordance with art. 14 of the settlement agreement, the (then) lawyers of the parties subsequently withdrew all pending legal proceedings.

6.2.7.
On August 8, 2016, the parties signed a deed of distribution. This includes the following provision.

Appeal

Finally, [parties], acting as reported, stated:

- that the aforementioned indivisibility has been divided to the mutual satisfaction of the partners and that in the event of disadvantage for more than a quarter - within the meaning of Article 3: 196 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code - settlement between them can be demanded to repair the disadvantage, but no destruction or dissolution of the distribution; "

6.2.8.
The man is director and sole shareholder of [the company] (hereinafter also: the BV).

6.3.1.
At first instance, the woman advanced:

1. condemning the man to meet her:

- the amount of € 174,413.50 plus the profit distribution as referred to in art. 6 of the settlement agreement;

- in the alternative, an amount of € 40,000 pursuant to its right of compensation and € 38,164.38 pursuant to setoff, to be increased by half of a value of the BV's shares to be determined by an expert, the profit distribution referred to in art. 6 of the settlement agreement;

- in the further alternative, the amount by which it was disadvantaged,

- in the further alternative, an amount to be determined by the court,

to be increased by the statutory interest from the day of the summons to the day of full payment;

2. Order the man to pay the costs of these proceedings.

6.3.2.
The woman underpinned this claim:

- an explanation of art. 6.3. of the settlement agreement in the sense that in order to determine the amount that the husband must pay her in the context of the settlement of overdraft / settlement, the value of the policies and the debt to the BV must be deducted from the amount owed to ASR principal and

- a right to the remainder of the maintenance as referred to in art. 5 in conjunction with art. 6.4 of the settlement agreement, namely (19 (months) x 1,250 =) € 23,750.

6.3.3.
The man put up a motivated defense. Insofar as relevant in appeal, this defense will be discussed below.

6.3.4.
The court ordered the man to pay the woman an amount of € 484.43, plus the statutory interest from the day of the subpoena to that of full payment and the more or otherwise claimed.

To this end, the court has considered the following.

4.4. (…)

- in short, it has been agreed according to [the woman] that she will receive the full amount of € 174,000.00 (being a debt of the B.V. to [her] and no debt of the parties to the B.V.), which [the man] disputes. According to [the woman], the residual mortgage amount (€ 229,660.31) minus the surrender value of ASR policies (€ 74,331.00) and minus the debt to [the company, must be deducted from the net sales proceeds of the home (€ 491,794.82). ] (€ 174,000.00) (the “minus ... minus” provision), leaving a positive balance of € 13,803.51;

- in short, according to [the woman], the “minus ... minus” provision with regard to the debt balance must be regarded as the remaining mortgage debt to ASR on the one hand, taking into account the surrender value of the two ASR policies (sections 6.3. sub a and sub b of the settlement agreement, namely debt of € 229,660.31 + surrender value of € 74,331.00 = residual debt of € 155,329.31) and, on the other hand, the debt to [the company] (section 6.3. sub c of the settlement agreement, namely € 174,000.00), so that the final residual debt is € 329,329.31. According to [the man], [the woman] makes a fallacy by deducting a debt from another debt, leaving a positive balance.

4.5.
The court does not follow [the woman] in her explanation. It cannot be inferred from anything in the settlement agreement that the parties have agreed that [the woman] would receive the full amount of € 174,000.00 in full. Furthermore, it is unclear why it can be deduced that a debt must be deducted from another debt, leaving a positive balance. The mere use of the words "minus ... minus" in art. 6.3. of the settlement agreement is insufficient for this. The court considers the explanation of the man, that in art. 6.2. of the settlement agreement the asset and in art. 6.3. the liability is listed, more plausible and will therefore follow it.

4.6.
In view of all the above considerations, the court comes to the following statement:

net proceeds from the home € 491,794.82

mortgage debt € 229,660.31

surrender value of ASR policies [life insurance policy ASR 1] and [life insurance policy ASR 2] € 74,331.00 -

residual mortgage debt € 155,329.31

debt to [the company] € 174,000.00

remainder of home equity € 162,465.51

Both parties will receive half of this amount, being € 81,232.76. "

6.4.
The woman raised three complaints on appeal. It has decided to set aside the appeal judgment and (after amendment of claim) to:

1. sentencing the man to meet her:

- primarily to reduce the amount of € 174,467 by what the man has already paid on the basis of the judgment of the court;

- in the alternative, the amount by which it was disadvantaged;

- in the further alternative, an amount to be determined by the court,

to be increased with the statutory interest from the day of the summons to that of full payment;

2. order the man to pay € 131 in subsequent costs, or if the judgment is served on the order of € 199, plus statutory interest from fourteen days after the date of the judgment up to the day of all satisfaction.

6.5.
The man has put up a defense and has concluded that the woman is inadmissible in her appeal or that this appeal is dismissed, with ratification of the judgment whose appeal, with or without correction and / or addition of grounds.

6.6.
Complaints I and II concern the explanation of art. 6.3. of the settlement agreement. With complaint III, the woman appeals to disadvantage for more than a quarter.

The court will first deal with complaints I and II jointly.

Article 6.3 of the settlement agreement (complaints I and II)

6.7.1.
By means of these grievances, the woman argues that the court has assumed an incorrect interpretation of art. 6.3. of the settlement agreement. The woman argues that a literal interpretation of Art. 6.3. of the settlement agreement. This literal interpretation means that the value of the policies must be deducted from the principal in respect of the mortgage loan to ASR (Article 6.3. Under a.) (The minus provision in Article 6.3. Under b.) And the debt to the eg (the minus provision in Article 6.3. under c). In support of the "literal" explanation it advocates, it submits the following:

The background, according to the woman, as further explained on the occasion of the proceedings, is that the debt to the BV is not a debt of the parties to the BV, but a debt of the man to the BV, since the BV's capital comes from her private assets (which the man also acknowledged in the amount of € 80,000). She has received over € 500,000 from her parents through donations and inheritance, of which more than half has been received in the joint accounts of the parties. The man has funneled an amount of € 266,844 to the BV without her permission or knowledge. From the fact that the debt was recorded as a home acquisition debt in the BV's annual accounts and the man's income tax return, the court wrongly deduced that the debt belongs to the simple community.

With the funds, which are her private assets, repayments have been made on the mortgage loan from ASR and the renovation has been paid for. It therefore has no debt to the BV, but a right to compensation to the community (and considerably higher than has been assumed by the court). The parties have thus taken this into account by deducting from the debt to ASR the value of the policies and the debt to the BV.

That art. 6.3 must be interpreted in the manner she advocates, it also follows that the debt to the BV is not mentioned in art. 4 of the settlement agreement, of which art. 6 is a further elaboration, nor is it in art. 1 of the settlement agreement, in which a summary is given of assets to be allocated or belonging to the man. This would only make sense if the debt (as the man's debt to the private limited company) is not considered relevant in the context of distribution and settlement.

Her explanation also argues that she (according to ground 2.3.12 of the decision of 5 November 2014 referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of the settlement agreement) is entitled to an amount of € 38,164.38 by way of set-off. , to be increased by half the value of the shares of the BV. The explanation of art. 6.3, on the other hand, would not only mean that she no longer disputes the debt to the BV, but also that she has waived her claim for set-off and her right to compensation of € 40,000 (which is part of her claim of € 174,826). The man does not make clear in any way why she would do that.

If the debt to the bv as well as the debt to ASR must be deducted from the net sales proceeds, art. 6.3 should have read differently. After sub c, the word "minus" should not have followed, but the word "plus". That in art. 6.3 The passive of the simple community is listed, as the man states, is incorrect. After all, under (b) of art. 6.3 the value of the life insurance policies is taken from ASR.

6.7.2.
The man argues the following against this.

Neither the settlement agreement itself nor the documents (changed in the procedures prior to the mediation) provide a basis or any starting point for the explanation of the woman.

The parties have settled all disputes in the context of mediation. In addition, the basic principle was that the debt to the BV, which pertains to money spent on the repayment of the mortgage loan from ASR and the renovation of the house, would be deducted as home acquisition debt from the final sale proceeds of the house. . There is no indication that this premise would have been abandoned.

In art. 1 under j. Of the settlement agreement, reference is made to the debt remaining on the mortgage loans relating to the house (ie (implicitly) also, contrary to the woman's assertion, to the debt to the private limited company). In art. 6.3. the debt to the BV is explicitly stated as being involved in the determination / calculation of the debt residual balance. In art. 4 the debt to the BV is not mentioned simply because in art. 4 only the variable items are listed, namely the sale proceeds of the house and the debt to ASR, which after all depended on the value of the pledged life insurance policies. However, the debt to the BV was not a variable item: the amount of this debt was fixed.

6.7.3.
4 Reasons of the Decision

It has been established between the parties that 50% of the net sales proceeds of the house minus the debt remaining on the house must be paid by the man to the woman in the context of the settlement from over-distribution / set-off (art. 6.2). In dispute, the question is whether to determine the amount to be paid by the man to the woman, the debt of € 174,826 to the BV should be deducted from the mortgage loan (as the woman argues) or from the sale proceeds. of the house (as the man argues).

In order to answer that question, the court must explain the settlement agreement. This explanation should be made using the Haviltex standard (HR March 13, 1981, ECLI: NL: HR: 1981: AG4158):

“The question how in a written contract the ratio of pp. has been settled and whether this contract leaves a gap that needs to be filled cannot be answered on the basis of a purely linguistic explanation of the provisions of that contract. After all, the answer to that question depends on the sentence that pp. in the given circumstances could reasonably grant these provisions to each other and to what they could reasonably expect from each other in this respect. It may also be important to which social circles pp. and which legal knowledge of such a pp. can be expected. ”

In this explanation, the judge must take into account all the special circumstances of the given case, valued according to what the standards of reasonableness and fairness entail (HR 20 February 2004, ECLI: NL: HR: 2004: AO1427).

The Haviltex standard states that the explanation must be made on the basis of the doctrine of will-trust, as laid down in art. 3:33 and 3:35 BW. It is not a matter of determining what is literally laid down in the settlement agreement, but of what the parties could reasonably infer from each other's statements (cf. HR February 24, 2017, ECLI: NL: HR: 2017: 315).

The division of the proceeds from the sale of the house is in dispute. The essence of the woman's argument is that the assets of the BV originate from her private assets, so that the debt to the BV is not a debt of the parties to the BV, but a debt of the man to the BV and that for that reason the parties are agreed (and art. 6.3 of the settlement agreement must be interpreted in this way) that the debt to the BV must be deducted from the balance that remains (after taking into account the proceeds of an investment policy) under the mortgage money loan from ASR.

This argument is flawed. In the explanation proposed by the woman, a debt is deducted from the mortgage loan, which is a debt of the parties (in addition to the value of the policies due to the parties), the debt to the private limited liability company, which according to the woman only the man is. Although this leads to an increase in the proceeds of the house, the woman receives only half of that proceeds, so that the debt to the BV is partly still for her account. The woman should have explained why she would still (partly) take the blame for this, while in her opinion it is the man's fault. However, she failed to do so.

Also, incidentally, the woman has not provided sufficient leads to accept the explanation of Art. 6.3 of the settlement agreement. For example, she has not brought any copies to the proceedings that show that her parents deposited more than € 250,000 into the joint bank account of the parties, after which an amount of € 266,844 was transferred from that account to the account of the BV is piped. This could be expected from her and she could also be considered capable of this now that it concerns a joint bank account. With this, the woman has insufficiently substantiated that there was a debt of the husband to the BV. This means that it has not been established that the debt to the BV is a debt of the man and that this is the way advocated by the woman. in art. 6.3. of the settlement agreement has been taken into account.

On the occasion of the hearing, the woman, when asked whether the home acquisition debt (the debt to the private limited liability company) was discussed in the context of the mediation, stated as follows:

"Yes, that was discussed, I have always understood from the mediator:" If it does not come from the house, then it comes from the BV. "

And also:

“It has always been very unclear to me. I received money from my parents, € 500,000. That was deposited in a savings account and from there it went to the BV. The man says that the BV has paid and that is correct, but that money came from my savings account. ”

In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, it cannot be inferred from the aforementioned statements that the parties mutually reasonably meet Art. 6.3 must assign the meaning that the woman has a claim of € 174,826 by virtue of distribution and set-off, and that this means in the manner set by the woman in art. 6.3. of the settlement agreement has been taken into account.

Nor does the assertion of the woman that the explanation advocated by the husband mean that she waives her compensation claim (recognized by the husband) of € 40,000 and her set-off claim, do not support the explanation she advocated, now that the husband on the other hand, it has argued that he, for his part, has also given up rights, such as those relating to the woman's share in current account debt.

What the woman has argued does not lead to any other judgment.

In view of all the above, the Court of Appeal shares the opinion of the Court that the explanation of the man must be followed in the sense that the parties should reasonably attach to the provisions of the agreement (Articles 6.2 and 6.3) the meaning that (also) debt to the BV is deducted from the proceeds from the sale of the house.

Complaints I and II fail and the woman's primary claim will be rejected.

The court will now assess complaint III.

Disadvantage (complaint III)

6.8.1.
On the basis of the final provision of the deed of distribution, the woman claims that the disadvantage she suffers is restored. To this end it puts forward the following.

Even if the debt to the BV is part of the simple community, the shares of the BV are not assigned any value and the profit distribution referred to in art. 6 of the settlement agreement is nil, it would have been entitled to an amount of € 120,766.18 (distribution of the simple community including the right to reimbursement) + € 38,164.38 (set-off) = € 158,930.88 on the basis of distribution and set-off. However, she received only € 80,766.18.

With the explanation of art. 6.3 of the settlement agreement, it is therefore more than 50% disadvantaged. Based on art. 3: 196 BW she is thus presumed to have erred about the value and it is up to the man to refute this presumption.

6.8.2.
The man argues the following against this.

The settlement agreement related to all parts of the disputes existing between the parties (distribution of the communal home, settlement of prenuptial agreements and maintenance). For this purpose, a settlement agreement / package deal has been concluded under the mediator's direction against final discharge. It is not appropriate to highlight one component to demonstrate that more than a quarter would have been disadvantaged in this regard, as the scheme must be expressly assessed in its entirety, in conjunction and in respect of all components. (see also HR January 25, 2013, ECLI: NL: HR: 2013: BV6689). An appeal to error in a settlement agreement is, in principle, also not possible, since it serves to definitively settle uncertainty or dispute, or to settle it in the present case. An untouchable distribution / setoff has been agreed and recorded in the settlement agreement.

The woman has not erred about “the value”. She did not misrepresent the value. If her already appeals to art. 3: 196 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, then the "presumption" of error has already been "refuted".

It is not the case that parties under the mediaton negotiated with each other on the basis of 'claims of the woman' as if they had already been irrevocably established. After all, proceedings were still pending (first instance and appeal). For that reason, too, an appeal to disadvantage for more than a quarter cannot be honored.

6.8.3.
The court considers as follows. Not to mention whether the claims in the calculation made by the woman are correct, which the husband disputes, the woman's appeal is based on the fact that the settlement agreement between the parties has the object of ending the disputes between them regarding the distribution of the communal home, settlement of prenuptial agreements and maintenance (cf. HR November 15, 1985, ECLI: NL: HR: 1985: AC4400). It is true that an impairment of the settlement agreement is possible under certain circumstances (cf. ECLI: NL: HR: 2013: BY3129), but circumstances that could give rise to this have not been established or proved in this case.

Therefore, complaint III is not successful either.

6.9.
Now that the parties are former spouses, the legal costs will be compensated as afterwards.

5 Decision
The Council:

ratifies the judgment of which appeal is made;

compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings in that each party is to bear its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise advanced.

This judgment was given by mrs. M.J. van Laarhoven, G.J. Vossestein and

T.J. Mellema-Kranenburg and was pronounced in public by the role councilor on March 17, 2020.

clerk of the court councilor