Pronunciation


COURT OF 'S-HERTOGENBOSCH
Family and youth law team

Verdict: March 19, 2020

Case number: 200.272.528 / 01

Case number first instance: C / 02/358789 / FA RK 19-2585

in the appeal case of:

[the mother] ,

residing in [place of residence],

appellant,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother,

lawyer: mr. L. van der Steen,

against

[the father] ,

residing in [place of residence],

defendant,

hereinafter referred to as: the father,

lawyer: mr. J.J. Lukewarm.

Interested parties are:

- Brabant Youth Protection Foundation,

established in [place of business],

hereinafter referred to as: the GI (certified institution),

In its capacity as described in Article 810 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the procedure includes:

- the Council for Child Protection, Southeast Netherlands,

location [location],

hereinafter referred to as: the council.

This case is about:

[minor 1], born on [date of birth] 2007 in [place of birth] and

[minor 2], born on [date of birth] 2009 in [place of birth].

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) court of 17 October 2019.

the appeal proceedings
2.1.
By notice of appeal with productions, which was received at the Registry on 16 January 2020, the mother requested that the aforementioned decision be set aside and, once again, to provide that:

I. the joint parental authority of the parties over the children is terminated and that the mother is entrusted with the unilateral parental authority over the children, at least that the court takes a decision that the court deems correct;

II. to amend the division of care and upbringing duties as included in the order of the court of East Brabant of December 18, 2017 and, once again, to determine a care arrangement between the father and the children, meaning that the father will be entitled to contact with the children:

- in even holidays from Friday 7 pm to Monday morning;

- during half of the holidays, as shown in her petitum;

- at least that the court takes a decision that the court deems correct.

2.2.
In a statement of defense, received on 7 February 2020, the father requested that the mother be declared inadmissible in the appeal or dismiss her complaints against the contested decision.

Simultaneous oral treatment

2.3.1.
On 3 December 2019, the mother also appealed against the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) court of 4 September 2019 with case number C / 02/361231 / JE RK 19-1430 on the supervision of the children. The appeal was administered by the registry under case number 200.270.082 / 01. The oral hearing of that appeal took place simultaneously with the oral hearing of this case.

The court decides by separate order in that appeal.

2.3.2.
The oral hearing took place on February 18, 2020. On that occasion, the following were heard:

parties, assisted by their lawyers;

the GI, represented by Mr [GI representative];

the Council, represented by Ms [Council representative].

2.3.3.
The court gave the minor [minor 1] the opportunity to express her opinion. She took advantage of this by sending a letter to the Court of Appeal, which was received at the Registry on 10 February 2020. During the oral hearing, the chairman presented the contents of that letter in a businesslike manner, after which all those present were given the opportunity to respond.

2.4.
The court has also taken note of the content of the V form with attachments from the mother's lawyer of 14 February 2020.

2 Facts
3.1.
The parties got married on November 11, 2011. Before the marriage were born:

[minor 1] (hereinafter: [minor 1]), on [date of birth] 2007 in [place of birth] and

[minor 2] (hereinafter: [minor 2]), on [date of birth] 2009 in [place of birth].

The children have their primary residence with the mother. There is joint authority.

By the divorce decision of December 18, 2017, the parents agreed to the following care arrangement that they are still implementing today.

Monday

Tuesday

Wednesday

Thursday

Friday

Saturday

Sunday

Even weeks

Father until school starts.

After school with mother

Mother

Mother until 6 pm

Father after 6 pm

Father

Father until 6 pm

Mother after 6 pm

Mother

Mother

Uneven weeks

Mother

Mother

Mother until 6 pm

Father after 6 pm

Father

Father

Father

Father

Parties divide the holidays in half, as laid down in the divorce decree and as later adjusted by this court by order of January 17, 2019 as far as the carnival and autumn holidays are concerned.

3.2.
In the past - from August 10, 2017 to August 9, 2018 - the children have been supervised. Since September 4, 2019 they are again under the supervision of the GI.

3 Scope of Dispute

3.3.1.
The mother has requested the court to end the parties' joint parental authority over the children and to determine that she will be entrusted with single-headed custody, at least that the court make a decision that the court deems correct. Furthermore, the mother has requested that the distribution of the care and upbringing duties as included in the order of the court of East Brabant of 18 December 2017 be amended and, once again, to determine a care arrangement between the father and the children, that the father will be entitled to contact the children:

- in the even weeks from Friday 7 p.m. to Monday morning;

- during half of the holidays, as shown in her petitum;

- at least that the court takes a decision that the court deems correct.

3.3.2.
By the contested order, the court rejected the mother's requests.

3.4.1.
The mother cannot agree with this decision and she has appealed against it. In her appeal, she summarizes briefly and insofar as currently relevant, the following.

Mother's position on parental authority:

It is certain that the children have gotten stuck and / or lost between parties. The decision of the September 4, 2019, supervision order states that an investigation by the council shows that the children are trapped in the struggle between their parents. There are concerns about the social-emotional development of the children. The children experience a great burden from the way in which the parents communicate with each other. As soon as agreements have to be made, communication fails. The children are made part of the struggle between the parents and this causes them tension, unrest and uncertainty. The court has wrongly ruled that within the foreseeable future improvement can be made in the notorious communication problems between parties. The previous supervision has proved counterproductive. The family guardian has emphasized that he will not use the bulkhead approach, but that he prefers the parallel parenting process. This while the council and the court have designated this process as the ultimate remedy to improve parental communication. The expectation that poor parental communication will improve within the foreseeable future is not justified. The children suffer from the current understanding of the parties. It is in their interest that the pinching position they have been in for a long time should come to an end as soon as possible. It is unacceptable to first wait for the results of the very difficult supervision.

Mother's position on the care scheme:

The changed circumstances mean that the current care scheme is harmful to the children. The father appears to have no babysitter for the children on Thursday. [minor 2] is dropped off at school far too early (08:00) every Thursday. After school he always stays with someone else. Wednesdays are also an increasing problem. Due to traffic jam problems, the father [minor 2] cannot pick up at the BSO at 6 pm. The mother picks up [minor 2] from the BSO and the father picks up [minor 2] from the mother at 6.45 pm. The irregularities and changes in days and times that the children should be with the father in accordance with the care scheme are not in the children's interest. The father increasingly calls on the mother when the children should be with him.

3.4.2.
During the oral appeal, the mother added, in short, that she wants rest for her children and that unilateral authority is the solution. If something has to be arranged for the children, it is very syrupy and with a lot of struggle. That has an impact on the children. For example, when a new passport for the children is due, the father reacted very late and then the mother had to make a new appointment. She does not want to hinder contact between the father and the children. The mother only intends to make a small change with the care scheme she has requested. A regular weekend arrangement brings peace and clarity; the children then have fewer changes and [minor 1] no longer has to eat alone or late. The mother is always willing to talk to the father, she suggested that herself.

3.5.1.
In summary, the father puts forward the following in his defense.

Father's position on parental authority:

It is irresponsible for the mother to be given sole custody of the children, since the way she acts grossly neglects the mother's obligations to promote ties between the father and the children. The mother acts against the interests of the children by not wanting to cooperate with the care providers in order to improve communication between the parents. Joint authority is justified because the children are placed under the supervision of the GI. If the authority is changed, the GI is no longer able to give instructions to both parents. The father is confident that the supervision will improve the manner of communication between parties in due course. Changing authority is not the appropriate means.

Father's position on the care scheme:

The irregularities and changes in the days and times that the children stay with the father are not mentioned. On Wednesdays, [minor 2] is picked up by the father at the BSO at 6 pm. It has only happened a few times that the father did not reach this time due to traffic jam problems. [minor 2] is going to play with a boyfriend on Thursday afternoon. [minor 1] is in high school and comes home independently in the afternoon. The father is free on Friday afternoon.

3.5.2.
In brief, the father added the following to the oral hearing on appeal.

The children have a good time with both him and the mother. He and the mother differ in their parenting styles, but that's not right or wrong in either case. [minor 1] likes him; he absolutely does not recognize what she writes. The father sees two cheerful children.

The father may sometimes be able to respond a little faster to emails from the mother. For example, if the mother emails on a Thursday, he will not respond until Monday. He does this, because it is only after the weekend that he has clarity whether he has childcare for a certain day. The father notices that the mother finds this annoying, but he does not do it consciously. The father is always ready to consult with the mother, certainly.

3.6.
In summary, the Board gave the following advice during the oral appeal.

The family guardian can no longer direct the family if the mother has one head. There is no ground to change joint authority. Parties have problems in mutual communication, but there is no question of a situation where they are jointly unable to make decisions. Moreover, it remains to be seen whether the authority, if there should be one-headed authority, should lie with the mother. That should then be investigated further. If at any time it becomes too complex to maintain the co-parenting arrangement, it is important to consider which parent best suits what the children need.

It would be helpful for the children to look carefully at the care plan so that there are fewer frustrations. The council advises the parties to consult with each other if the exchange moments are not feasible. That should be possible, because the council sees two very involved parents.

3.7.
During the oral appeal, the GI stated, in short, that he feels that he has entered a battle between the parents. The GI would like to put the children first. The GI and the parents are on the same page when it comes to the fact that certain things have to be done differently. The parents do things their own way and that's fine.

The court considers the following.

4 Reasons of the Decision

3.8.1.
The court finds that after the divorce, the mother and father continued to exercise parental authority over the children.

3.8.2.
Pursuant to Article 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), the judge can, at the request of the unmarried parents or one of them, end joint custody if the circumstances have subsequently changed or when the decision is made with incorrect or incomplete information. has gone out.

Article 1: 253n BW paragraph 2 provides that Article 1: 251a BW paragraph 1 applies mutatis mutandis. This means that the judge can determine that the authority belongs to one parent if:

(a) there is an unacceptable risk that the child would become trapped or lost between the parents and it is not expected that there will be sufficient improvement in the foreseeable future, or

b) a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child.

3.8.3.
Joint custody requires that the parents are able to exercise proper authority and that they can take joint decisions of any importance about their child, or at least be able to agree on situations that may arise around the child, such that the child does not get stuck or lost between the parents. According to settled case law, the lack of good communication between the parents does not automatically mean that in the best interest of the child, the authority must be assigned to one of the parents. The starting point is that both parents are jointly responsible for the custody of their child. Only when there are serious contraindications against joint authority can one-headed authority be maintained.

It does not appear from what the mother has argued that one of the grounds for rejection referred to above under 3.8.2.above, and that the father could not bear his role as an authoritative parent towards the children.

3.8.4.
It is clear that there is an urgent need to improve communication between parents. Contrary to what the mother thinks, however, the court is of the opinion that these problems cannot now lead to the conclusion that the mother should only be entrusted with parental authority. The parents have the responsibility to ensure a mutual respectful and good communication around and with the children. It is up to the parents to work individually to improve mutual communication. To this end, the parents will participate in the parallel parenting process at Stichting [stichting]. The court is confident that the parties will come closer together and that their mutual communication will improve if they both fully open themselves to the assistance that the GI deems necessary: ​​currently this consists of their participation in the parallel parenting process.

3.8.5.
The Court further takes into account that it has not been established that the father has so far frustrated or stopped making important decisions about the children. Otherwise, the court does not consider it necessary to grant the request to the mother in the interests of the children.

3.8.6.
The mother's assertion that it is calmer for the children when she only exercises parental authority does not convince the court, since the problems between the parties lie mainly in the implementation of the access arrangements. The court deems it in the best interests of the children if their parents have an equal position towards them and various bodies (such as the GI), especially now that the parties have been registered with Stichting [stichting] for the parallel parenting process. The Court of Appeal hereby takes into account that the management will be left to the family manager, now that the Court will maintain the custody order against which the mother has appealed (see Court decision of 19 March 2020, case number: 200.270.082 / 01 ). Both parents must be able to be held accountable by the family manager for their responsibilities. It is up to the parents to work on improving their mutual parenthood under the pressure of the supervision measure. They may be expected to take joint responsibility for the education and development of the children. It is in the interest of the children that the parents make an effort to give a positive interpretation to parenting and to confirm and support each other's position in it.

3.8.7.
On the basis of the above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that joint custody of the children should be maintained.

Care plan

3.9.1.
Pursuant to Article 1: 253a paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), disputes regarding the joint exercise of parental authority can be brought before a judge. In the event of a dispute regarding the division of the care and upbringing duties, the judge may, having regard to Article 1: 377e BW in conjunction with Article 1: 253a paragraph 4 BW, take an earlier decision in this regard or a care arrangement mutually agreed by the parents. change on the grounds that the circumstances have subsequently changed.

The judge takes such a decision as he deems desirable in the best interests of the child.

3.9.2.
The court is of the opinion that the mother has not, at least insufficiently, made her claim that the current care scheme is not in the best interests of the children, because there is a relevant change in circumstances. The court does not follow her conclusion that there should be a deviation from the agreed co-parenting with regard to the care scheme. It has not been shown that the father carelessly deals with the children, nor has it been shown that he would take bad care of the children. The Court of Appeal considers continuation of the current de facto care regulation, which has been in effect for more than two years, desirable in the interests of [minor 1] and [minor 2]. Contrary to the mother's assertion, the Court is of the opinion that limiting the frequency of the care scheme will not lead to the rest intended by the mother for the children. From the content of the documents and the proceedings during the oral hearing on appeal, the court concludes that the communication problems between the parents and the conflict that has arisen between them means that there is a continuous tense / restless situation between parties, which has (had) undeniable repercussions on the children. The court also sees this in the letter from [minor 1]. The court finds from the letter of [minor 1] that the current care scheme is 'too much' for her and that [minor 1] has found her own solution to stay out of the struggles of her parents by going to her father less often. want to go. This is not a good solution, however understandable from the perspective of [minor 1]. The court does not rule out that the dismissive attitude of the mother towards the father, in which the mother consciously or unconsciously involves the children, is an explanation for [minor 1] 's feeling that her father does not keep his promises and does not help. The court does not see any concrete indications that this feeling is justified by [minor 1].

3.9.3.
Within the parallel parenting process, the court strongly recommends that parents work with the help of a professional third party to improve their mutual communication to an acceptable level. This may also be expected of the parents, given their parental obligations. After all, it is in the children's interest that their parents can communicate in a normal way. When both the mother and the father radiate that they both, each in their own way, allow the children the space to be with the other parent and are able to give substance to parenthood, the court considers the chance that the children are realistic. (in particular: [minor 1]) will no longer experience problems with the implementation of the care scheme. The court informs the parties that, in consultation with the family manager, they can make agreements with each other on parts of the care scheme if they notice that certain agreements are not going well. They must find the solution together. It is therefore very positive that both parents stated on appeal that they are always willing to discuss this with each other.

3.9.4.
All in all, the court sees no reason to deviate from the agreed co-parenting. This means that the court will also reject this request from the mother on appeal and that the current care regulations must be maintained.

5 Decision
The Council:

ratifies the contested decision;

requests the registrar to provide a copy of the order pursuant to the Decree on the Authority Registers

to forward this decision to the registrar of the court of Oost-Brabant, team family and youth law, for the attention of the central authority register;

compensates the costs of the appeal, in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. J.F.A.M. Graafland-Verhaegen, C.D.M. Lamers and H. van Winkel and was pronounced in public in the presence of Mr. D. van der Horst, registrar on March 19, 2020.
