Pronunciation


COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE HERTOGENBOSCH

Family and youth law team

case number: 200.237.779 / 01

case number court: C / 02/301595 FA RK 15-4437

decision of the plenary chamber of 26 March 2020

on

[appellant],

residing in [place of residence],

applicant in the main appeal,

defendant in the cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer mr. V.L.M. Lapidary in Maarssen,

against

[defendant],

residing in [place of residence],

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in the cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer mr. M. Özgül in Breda.

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) court of 23 January 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1.
The man appealed against the order of January 23, 2018 on April 20, 2018.

2.2.
On 25 June 2018, the woman filed a statement of defense also containing an incidental appeal.

2.3.
The man filed a defense to the cross-appeal on September 11, 2018.

2.4.
The following documents were also received at the court:

a letter from the man dated 20 June 2019;

a letter from the woman dated 25 June 2019 with attachments (Exhibits 2 and 3);

a letter from the man dated June 27, 2019;

the pleading memorandum, partly presented at the hearing, by the man's lawyer, with the schematic overview submitted by this lawyer of the sound recordings that were played during the oral hearing.

2.5.
The oral hearing took place on July 3, 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers.

2.6.1.
In the aforementioned letter of June 25, 2019, the woman objected to the letter from the husband of June 20, 2019. According to the woman, the man responded in his letter to the woman's statements. The man should have appealed this occasionally in his defense.

The man has also announced that he wants to play some passages of the recorded conversations between the man, the woman and her father during the oral hearing. The woman also objects to this. The recordings could have been sent to the court by means of a CD or USB stick. Moreover, the conversations have already been elaborated on paper.

2.6.2.
The man responded to these objections by said letter of 27 June 2019. In his letter of June 20, 2019, the man did not put forward an additional defense, but provided support for “the” request made. Defense can also be brought to court, so it is not clear why this could not be done by letter.

These are short sound fragments, for which only a small part of the speaking time needs to be used. The fragments are enlightening "relative to the entered transcripts".

2.6.3.
The court rules on the woman's objections as follows.

Contrary to what the woman thinks, the man does not respond to the woman's statements in his letter of 20 June 2019, but informs the court about a new development, namely an appeal procedure in Belgium. What the man further remarks in his letter concerns an explanation of “the” request, namely the request to play sound recordings. The letter is short, it consists of only three paragraphs, has been submitted with due observance of the ten-day period and does not conflict with the correct procedural order. The woman's objection to the letter is therefore rejected.

The sound clips of the conversations are allowed in this case. The parties were also informed of this before the oral hearing. The reason for allowing is that the court in this case is also enabled by playing the fragments to take note of the tone in which the conversations were conducted (e.g. friendly, businesslike, heated, etc.), possible emphasis with which certain words are spoken, silences fall, or a comment is meant ironically, etc. and the court can also question parties about it. All this can contribute to a better appreciation of the transcripts. According to the man's lawyer, it also concerned short sound clips for which only a small part of her speaking time would be used. Because the decision about playing the fragments was communicated before the oral hearing, the parties (in particular also the woman) were given sufficient opportunity to prepare for the oral hearing. Also at the hearing the woman was able to respond and actually responded to the sound fragments and what the man brought up about this.

2 Facts
3.1.
The court of appeal is based on the facts established by the court insofar as no appeal has been brought against it. Among other things, the following has been established:

a. The parties were married on 1 May 1996 in Dongen in community of property.

On July 6, 2015, the woman filed for divorce. The divorce was pronounced by (interim) decision of 12 July 2016 of the Zeeland-West-Brabant court. The divorce decision was entered in the registers of civil status on July 29, 2016.

3 Reasons of the Decision
4.1.
The court gave the man an order for evidence. The evidence order was: to prove that on July 6, 2015 (the date on which the matrimonial community was dissolved by submitting the divorce petition), the parties had a claim of € 183,000 against the woman's father, Mr [the woman's father ], which claim belonged to the community of property.

4.2.
The husband based this claim on the statement that the parties had a savings balance in their bank account of Fortis bank in Belgium in the name of the woman during their marriage, that the balance of € 130,568.11 was fully drawn and booked on 15 May 2009. in a newly opened bank account with Fortis Bank in the name of the father of the woman, of which account the husband and wife became plenipotentiaries. In his view, although the money was put in the name of the father of the woman, the woman and the man received a claim on the father of the woman in the amount of the balance on the aforementioned bank account on the reference date, being € 103,000. -. In addition, in or around 2014, an amount of € 80,000 was made available from a Belgian account in the name of the father of the woman for (a new cultivation of) the rose nursery of the parties. According to the man, this credit of € 80,000 was in reality not from the woman's father, but from the parties themselves. The amount of € 80,000 was repaid to the woman's father from the proceeds of an apartment belonging to the parties in Belgium, which apartment they sold in 2016 at the request of Rabobank.

4.3.
The woman has contradicted that on the reference date (6 July 2015), the parties had a claim against her father. She submitted that her father had granted a loan to the parties at the start of the partnership between her and the husband in 1992, which loan was repaid on 15 May 2009.

4.4.
The court has in para. 2.18 judged that the husband provided proof that the parties had a monetary claim on the father of the woman on the reference date of € 103,000 and that the father of the woman as' temporary manager 'of the parties' savings was subject to the obligation to repay the money to them. Furthermore, the court in para. 2.19 judged that it has not been established that the parties also had a claim on the father of the woman of € 80,000 on the reference date.

4.5.
The husband requests the court to annul the contested order in so far as it concerns the parties' claims against the woman's father and once again do the following:

primarily to set this claim at an amount of € 183,000, or at least such an amount as will appear from the bank statements for submission to which the woman must be sentenced;

alternatively, to admit the woman to provide evidence to the contrary against the man's previously established and proven allegations that the parties have a claim against the woman's father of € 183,000, at least such an amount as will be apparent from the bank statements, failing which it will be determined that the marriage community includes a claim against the woman's father of € 183,000;

in the main and in the alternative, to assign the claim of the parties to the father of the woman to be determined in this respect to the woman under the obligation to pay half of it to the man within four weeks after service of the decision to be made in this respect, or if the court does not consider this permissible, order the woman to pay the entire amount within four weeks after service of the decision to be made in a blocked and joint account, such that the parties can only dispose of the funds with written consent.

The man has put forward four complaints for this.

4.6.
The woman has contradicted the man's grievances. In cross-appeal, she requests the Court of Justice to annul the contested decision insofar as it stipulates that the community of property of the parties on the reference date included a claim against the woman's father of € 103,000 and that it again determine that :

reject the husband's requests to involve the parties' claim against the wife's father in the division of the matrimonial community of parties, or declare the husband inadmissible in his requests;

to establish in law that there is no question of a claim by parties of

€ 103,000 on the woman's father.

The woman put forward three complaints for this.

4.7.
The man defends. He requests the court to dismiss the woman's occasional appeal.

4.8.
The Court of Appeal will discuss the grievances in principal and cross-appeal afterwards.

4.9.
With complaint 1 from the husband and the woman's three grievances, the parties submitted the valuation of the evidence to the court.

According to the man, the court wrongly ruled that he did not provide evidence that the parties had a claim against the woman's father on the reference date of € 80,000. On the other hand, the woman believes that the court wrongly ruled that the husband provided proof that the parties had a monetary claim on the father of the woman on the reference date of € 103,000, and that this has established that the father of the woman as' temporary manager 'of the parties' savings, the obligation rested to repay the money to them.

The supporting documents are the supporting documents that the court has issued. The court states:

- production 2 to the deed of 14 April 2016, as further specified in legal ground. 2.3 of the contested decision;

a transcription of an audio recording (according to the man made on October 27, 2014) of a conversation between him, the woman and the woman's father (production 8 in first instance);

sound recordings and transcriptions of these (according to the man made on October 5, 2014 and in November 2015) sound recordings of conversations between him, the woman and the woman's father (exhibits 21 and 22 in first instance);

the statements of the woman, the woman's father and Mr [witness 1], [witness 2] and [witness 3], who were heard as witnesses at first request at the husband's request;

the statement by the man, who was heard at first instance as a witness at the request of the woman;

the sound clips played by this court during the oral hearing.

The court has re-weighed and valued the evidence, reaching the same verdict as the court. The court adopts the motivation used by the court and makes it his own. In addition, the court also considers the following.

The oral treatment was largely devoted to the playback of the sound clips, in particular three recordings, referred to by the man as “Recording [recording 1]: Nov 2016”, “Recording [recording 2]: 5 Oct 2014 (seems short before bankruptcy) ”and“ Withdrawal [record 3] shortly before bankruptcy; well before divorce ”. The man argues that these sound fragments objectively show that the parties had a claim against the woman's father of € 80,000.

Questioned about this during the hearing, the man stated that the reason for all the recordings was that the tension in the household was increasing, the man made the recordings in the context of “self-help”, that the recordings were necessary for help to the children and that the woman was not aware of the recordings. Indeed, the woman was not aware of the recordings and further stated that the man made the recordings "premeditated", that there was no psychological self-help, that the man's tone is emotionless and the woman emotional and that the man has chewed everything. The woman has further argued that the recordings are unclear and that on paper not everything that has been said by the woman's father can be found.

The court does not follow the man in his statement that the sound recordings show a claim against the woman's father of € 80,000. In the sound recordings various amounts of money are mentioned, but it cannot be deduced from this that the father of the woman owes the parties an amount of € 80,000. Moreover, the played recordings are of insufficient weight to contribute to the evidence to be provided here by the man. The court finds it implausible that the recordings were made for psychological self-help. How the recordings could be helpful (and for which psychological problems) and what the self-help process would look like and where the recordings would be discussed in that process, the man has not made this sufficiently clear. Rather, the court finds it plausible that the man wanted to put things in the woman's mouth, the woman speaks in this context of "chewed". When listening to the recordings, the court also found that the man formulates his questions in a compelling, guiding tone and, moreover, rather unmoved ("emotionless" according to the woman), in which the court, together with the circumstance that it concerned covert recordings, also sees an indication that the man wants to make the woman say something. Finally, the recordings are partly unintelligible, so that the transcripts submitted do not provide a complete picture of what those involved have stated.

4.10.
On appeal, the woman brought the following defense against the alleged existence of a claim by the parties against the woman's father. The father did not lend money to the partnership, but to the parties themselves. The woman contributed this money (“her private contribution”, defense, pt. 17 ”). This concerned an amount of NLG 100,000. The father provided the loan when the partnership was founded in 1992 (for the marriage of the parties). The man has also stated that the amount of NLG 100,000 comes from the woman's father (examination of witnesses, prod. M). The loan was necessary because the parties to the bank were unable to obtain financing for the company. The loan totaled BEF 400,000 [court: the woman means 4 million Belgian francs], with 3% interest. This is converted more than the contribution of the woman of NLG 100,000, but with the rest of the loan (the woman stated at the hearing that this also involved an amount of NLG 100,000), the emergency home in the shed is also from parties. The woman still appeals to the certificate of witness examinations (prod. E). The payment of € 130,000 to the father of the woman was made on the basis of the repayment of this loan.

In contrast, the man has argued the following. The financing structure of the parties' company can be found in the opening balance sheet from 1992. There is no evidence that the contribution of the woman of NLG 100,000 was borrowed by the parties from her father. The opening balance does mention the loan from the man's father, but not the woman's. No loan was required either. It is unbelievable that the amount of NLG 100,000 (= € 45,378) borrowed in 1992 would have increased to € 130,000 in 2009. Finally, the statement by the woman that there would be a loan of NLG 100,000 contradicts the statement by the woman and her father that there is a loan of BEF 4 million (= € 99,156). During the oral hearing, the man mentioned about the emergency home that it was paid for from the available resources at the start of the company.

The court rules on this as follows. The wife has failed to explain why, although the parties would have entered into a loan agreement with her father together, only she contributed the borrowed money to the partnership of the parties (and thus the borrowed money was not co-contributed by the husband). The man would therefore have entered into an obligation to repay, while only the woman benefits from this, because it concerns her contribution. The woman should have explained this all the more because the parties were not yet married in 1992 and only in 1996 did the marriage commence as a general community of property. The appeal the woman makes to prod. E can't help her. The man explains that the amount of NLG 100,000 consisted of a donation. That would explain why only the woman contributed. The fact that an amount of NLG 100,000 or BEF 4 million was necessary does not mean that this amount has been borrowed. It may also have been donated. The woman has not made clear why parties would have agreed an interest of 3% with the father. Any need for financing, let alone up to an amount of BEF 4 million, the woman fails to substantiate. The fact that (the remainder of) the alleged loan was used for the emergency home has in no way been substantiated by the woman. Why the available resources would be insufficient for this, a point that has been made by the man, the woman does not clarify this either. In view of the above, the woman's defense that the transfer of the savings to a bank account in the name of her father was made in repayment of his loan was rejected. The grievances of the woman fail.

Issuing bank statements (complaint 2 by the man)

4.11.
The court agrees with the court that this request should be rejected. The bill is not in the name of the woman, but in the name of her father. The woman disputes that she made any promise in this regard (defense, point 11).

Reversal of the burden of proof (complaint 3 by the man)

4.12.
The court sees no reason for reversing the burden of proof as requested by the man. The husband can legally involve the wife's father, as he has already done in proceedings before the Belgian judge. The woman submitted production 1 in this respect, which shows this. At the oral hearing, the man stated that the appeal is currently pending in Belgium. The Court of Appeal will reject the request to hold the present proceedings until the man has disposition under that procedure of the bank statements to which he is concerned (defense, incident, apple, p. 3). When a judgment can be expected in the Belgian appeal, the man was unable to say, while it is furthermore uncertain whether that judgment is permissible and, on the basis of that judgment, he will have access to the documents he desires.

Application for allocation (complaint 4 by the man)

4.13.
In complaint 4, the husband requested that the parties' money claim against the wife's father be allocated to the wife under the obligation to pay half of it to the husband. The court will grant this request from the husband, since it concerns a claim against the woman's father and it has not been established or proved that the woman would not be on good terms with her father. Whether and to what extent the woman's father could possibly invoke prescription, as the woman has stated, is a question that cannot and will not be answered in these proceedings.

4 The conclusion
in the principal and the incidental appeal

On the basis of what has been considered above, the court will ratify the contested decision, insofar as it is subject to its judgment, and additionally allocate the parties' claim against the woman's father of € 103,000 to the woman under the obligation. half of this, being an amount of € 51,500, to be reimbursed to the man.

5 Decision
The Council:

ratifies the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) court of 23 January 2018, insofar as it is subject to the judgment of the court, and in addition to that:

allocates to the woman the monetary claim of the parties on the father of the woman of € 103,000 under the obligation to reimburse half of this amount, being an amount of € 51,500 to the man;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. G.J. Vossestein, M.J. van Laarhoven and H.J.M. van Arkel-van Gasselt, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the Registrar on March 26, 2020.