Pronunciation


Court THE HAGUE
Criminal law

Multiple criminal division

Parquet number: 09 / 766072-17

Date of judgment: March 27, 2020

Contradiction

(Court judgment)

On the basis of the charges and following the investigation at the hearing, the court of The Hague delivered the following judgment in the case of the public prosecutor against the suspect referred to the multiple criminal chamber by the police judge:

[suspect] ,

born on [day of birth] in [place of birth],

address: [address] in [place of residence].

1 Proceedings

The investigation was held at the hearing on June 6, 2018 (police judge), October 18, 2019, December 13, 2019 and March 13, 2020.

The court has heard of the public prosecutor's claim

mr. M.A. Visser and of what by the suspect and his counsel mr. I.J.K. van der Meer has been brought forward.

2 Appeal
After the charges were brought to trial at the hearing on 18 October 2019, the suspect was charged with the following:

1.

He at one or more time (s) in or around the period of January 25

2011 to December 13, 2013 in Hoofddorp and / or Ter Aar and / or elsewhere in

The Netherlands, as (de facto) director of one or more legal person (s)

(namely [company 1])

which, by judgment of the District Court of The Hague, was in a state of 7 May 2013

has been declared bankrupt,

(each time) deceptively shortening the rights of its creditor (s),

has not fulfilled its obligations towards it

keeping an administration pursuant to Article 15i of Book 3 of the

Civil Code and / or storage and / or publication of books

and / or documents and / or data carriers in that article mean d;

In the alternative, if the above does not lead to a statement of evidence and / or a

conviction could or could lead:

He at one or more time (s) in or around the period of January 25

2011 to December 13, 2013 in Hoofddorp and / or Ter Aar and / or elsewhere in

The Netherlands, as (de facto) director of one or more

legal person (s) (namely [company 1])

which, by judgment of the District Court in The Hague, 7 May 2013 is in the state of

has been declared bankrupt,

the books, documents and / or other data carriers, which according to the

articles 10 book two and / or article 15i book 3 administration has been conducted and

which he has kept under that article, is not intact

has brought forth;

2.

in or around the period from May 7, 2013 to December 13, 2013 at

Hoofddorp and / or Ter Aar and / or elsewhere in the Netherlands, as (former) (factual)

director of a legal person, namely [company 1]

, which by judgment of the district court in The Hague dated 7 May 2013

has been declared bankrupt,

while he was legally called to provide information,

has been intentionally left out or has refused for no valid reason

provide the required information or knowingly provide false information

given,

after all, the suspect has not complied with one or more requests from the

receiver in this bankruptcy for information and / or the (entire and / or one or more

provide documents of the) records of [company 1];

3 Scope of Dispute
3.1
preface

Briefly put, the suspicion boils down to the suspect being guilty of a fraudulent bankruptcy (fact 1 primary) or a simple bank breach (fact 1 subsidiary) and of not providing information in the event of bankruptcy (fact 2).

3.2
The prosecutor's position

The public prosecutor has demanded that the court declare the facts under 1 primary and 2 charged legally and convincingly proven, involving multiple acts.

3.3
The position of the defense

The counsel has taken the position with regard to the charges initially charged under 1 - based on the grounds in her pleading note - that the suspect should be acquitted because it cannot be established that he was aware of the significant risk of fraudulent shortening of creditors' rights.

With regard to the charges charged in the alternative under 1, the counsel has taken the position that the suspect should be dismissed from all legal proceedings because this cannot be classified as the offense under article 342, preamble and under 3 (old) Penal Code, now in the indictment the item "due to him" is missing.

The counsel has taken the position with regard to the accused under 2 that the suspect should be acquitted because a proven statement cannot find sufficient support in the evidence in the file.

3.4

4 Reasons of the Decision

Regarding fact 1

[company 1] (hereinafter: [company 1]) concerns a continuation on 26 November 2010 of a sole proprietorship [company 1]. Since May 9, 2011, the suspect was listed as an authorized representative on behalf of the company.

On May 7, 2013, [company 1] was declared bankrupt by the court in The Hague. The court has appointed [trustee 1] as trustee.

After she had already reported the suspected bankruptcy fraud committed by the suspect in the bankruptcy of [company 1] to the Fraud Reporting Point West Netherlands on 30 September 2013, the bankruptcy trustee reported the bankruptcy fraud by the suspect on 13 December 2013.

In that report, the bankruptcy trustee stated that she has tried a number of times to receive the administration from the suspect and that this has not been successful.

The bankruptcy trustee has not received copies of the subscription administration, sales invoices, data from bank accounts and annual accounts. The supplied ledger is not complete and there is no tax information. Finally, no assets were found, although there are indications that a car was ever purchased.

The creditors are disadvantaged because of the suspect's actions. At the time of the declaration, the claims of the accredited creditors totaled € 77,257.12.

Investigations by the police revealed that the suspect was previously involved in bankruptcies of, among others, [company 2] (declared bankrupt on [… 1]), [company 3] (declared bankrupt on [… 4]) and [company 1] (declared bankrupt on [… 3]). In these bankruptcies [bankruptcy trustee 2] acted as curator, who informed the police that he held the suspect liable as director in the bankruptcies, and that this had to do with an administration that did not meet the requirements.

In its notification of suspected bankruptcy fraud dated 30 September 2013, the bankruptcy trustee stated that in the past the suspect had been the director-major shareholder of a number of companies that had gone bankrupt. The suspect was sued by the trustee in these companies for improper management. A settlement was then reached with the suspect, but he never paid it.

The suspect has declared to the police that he has gone bankrupt several times. It just happens to you, the suspect said. The suspect further stated that financial documents of [company 1] were lost in a computer crash and that he lost part of the records of [company 1] during a move. At the hearing, the suspect stated that he regrets that it turned out this way and that if he had foreseen that it could lead to a criminal case, he would have given extra time to do his best to submit the accounts to the curator. The suspect then himself went after the financial documents that he had lost due to the computer crash.

The counsel has advocated acquittal. To this end, it has been argued that the suspect had no (conditional) intention to fraudulently shorten the creditors' rights.

The court considers this defense as follows.

Fraudulent bankruptcy?

For a statement of the charges to be proven, it is at least required that [company 1] has deliberately not complied with the obligations with regard to keeping sound administration within the meaning of Article 3:15 i BW. In addition, this omission must have been made "in order to deceptively shorten the rights of creditors of the legal person". This means that there must have been intent on shortening the rights of the creditors (in other words on the disadvantage of the creditors), where conditional intent is sufficient. The proof of this conditional intent first of all requires that the conduct of the suspect has at least created a significant chance of this disadvantage. In addition, the suspect must have consciously accepted that significant opportunity.

The court first establishes that the suspect intentionally did not keep proper records and did not submit complete records to the trustee. The suspect has declared to the police that his administration has been partially lost and, according to the trustee's report, he has not submitted complete administration. The court is of the opinion that the accused, as an experienced entrepreneur, knew that due to the loss of documents, he did not have proper administration, while his statement at the hearing shows that he also did not take the necessary action to rectify this.

Was there intention to shorten creditors' rights?

The court is of the opinion that the way in which the suspect kept his accounts and the failure to fully submit his accounts to the trustee created a significant chance that creditors would be disadvantaged in the event of bankruptcy. The court also believes that the suspect has consciously accepted this significant opportunity. The suspect has been an entrepreneur for years and was aware that he had to keep sound accounts. Furthermore, it follows from the aforementioned evidence that the other companies of the suspect were declared bankrupt in 2008 and 2009 and that he, as director in those bankruptcies, was held liable by the trustee for improper management, for which he was offered a settlement, because even then the administration was out of order. The court is of the opinion that it can also be deduced from this that the suspect should and should have known that, by keeping his accounts in this way, he has consciously accepted the considerable chance that the rights of the creditors would be deceptively shortened.

The court therefore considers that it has been proven that the accused, at least in a conditional sense, aimed at the fraudulent shortening of the rights (disadvantage) of the creditors and therefore rejects the defense of the defense.

The court is of the opinion that the offense primarily charged under 1 can be proved legally and convincingly.

Regarding fact 2

In a conversation on May 15, 2013, the trustee in bankruptcy requested the suspect to have the complete administration extradited. On May 22, 2013, the curator made an appointment by email with the suspect that he would bring the administration the following Monday. In an e-mail message of 28 May 2013, the curator informed the suspect that he had failed to bring the administration the day before. She also asked him to provide the general ledger overview. On 3 June 2013, the suspect appeared to have delivered two files with administration to the bankruptcy trustee's office. The trustee informed him by e-mail on the same day that this was not the complete administration, as bank statements, sales invoices, tax returns and tax assessments were missing and the personnel administration was missing. On 17 June 2013, the trustee in bankruptcy again pointed out to the suspect that she also wanted to receive the rest of the administration, as requested previously. The bankruptcy trustee informed the suspect by e-mail on 4 July 2013 that she still had not received the rest of the administration and that she gave him the time until next Friday. On 6 August 2013, the bankruptcy trustee contacted the suspect and subsequently confirmed by email that he had indicated that he would supply the missing administration within two weeks. The bankruptcy trustee indicated that until then it had only received the purchasing administration. On September 11, 2013, the curator informed the suspect by e-mail that he had until Monday to deliver what had been agreed. The bankruptcy trustee subsequently received a letter from the suspect on September 16, 2013, dated August 20, 2013, stating that he could not provide the requested information because the requested documents had been lost, probably on his move from Alphen aan den Rijn to Kleve.

On December 13, 2013, the bankruptcy trustee reported bankruptcy fraud by the suspect. The bankruptcy trustee stated that she has tried a number of times to receive the administration from the suspect and that this has not been successful. The suspect has not provided additional information to several requests from the curator.

The suspect has stated to the police that part of the accounts, namely work orders and purchase invoices, was lost during the move, and that the trustee could have requested the payroll administration from his accounting office. The current account documents were on a computer and were lost during a crash of that computer, according to the suspect.

From the above evidence, the court infers that over a period of many months the suspect has not complied with the obligation to provide information that he had as director against the liquidator during the bankruptcy of [company 1].

In view of the foregoing, the District Court is of the opinion that the offense referred to under 2 has been established legally and convincingly.

3.5
The proven statement

The court declares that:

1.

He at one or more time (s) in the period from January 25, 2011 to December 13, 2013 in Hoofddorp and / or Ter Aar and / or elsewhere in the Netherlands, as (de facto) director of a legal person (namely [company 1 ]), which was declared bankrupt by judgment of the District Court in The Hague on 7 May 2013,

(each time) to deceitfully diminish the rights of its creditors,

has not complied with its obligations with regard to keeping an administration pursuant to Article 15i of Book 3 of the Dutch Civil Code and the storage and publication of books and / or documents and / or data carriers referred to in that Article;

2.

in the period from 7 May 2013 to 13 December 2013 in Hoofddorp and / or Ter Aar and / or elsewhere in the Netherlands, as (former) de facto director of a legal person, namely [company 1], who, by judgment of the The Hague District Court dated 7 May 2013 was declared bankrupt, while he was legally called to provide information, refused to provide the required information, because he, the suspect, did not comply with one or more requests from the receiver in this bankruptcy to provide information and / or the (entire) administration of [company 1].

Insofar as typing and language errors occur in the indictment, these have been corrected in the evidence. It appears from the proceedings at the hearing that the suspect was not harmed in the defense.

The punishability of the proven
The proven is punishable by law, because no facts or circumstances have become plausible that exclude the criminality of the facts.

The criminality of the suspect
The suspect is also punishable because no facts or circumstances have become plausible that exclude his criminal offense.

The sentencing
6.1
The public prosecutor's claim

The public prosecutor has demanded that the suspect be sentenced to 60 hours of community service, alternatively 30 days in custody, and a 2-week suspended sentence with two years' probation.

6.2
The position of the defense

The counsel has taken the view that there is a significant exceeding of the reasonable period. The counsel has requested not to impose a punishment or measure when convicted, but to pronounce a pardon in court.

6.3
The judgment of the court

Penalties to be reported are in accordance with the gravity of the offenses committed, the circumstances under which they were committed and based on the suspect's person and personal circumstances, as revealed during the investigation at the hearing. In particular, the court takes the following into account.

As the actual director of [company 1], the suspect was guilty of a fraudulent bankruptcy. He has not complied with his obligation to keep transparent records and to submit these to the curator.

Through his actions, the suspect has disadvantaged the creditors of [company 1] in their means of redress. This action is extremely bad not only because the duped creditors suffer financial damage, but also because such fraud affects the trust between entrepreneurs, which is essential for a well-functioning trade.

The court takes into account that, according to an extract from judicial documentation of February 12, 2020, which he has registered, the suspect has a blank criminal record.

The court further involves in its assessment that the reasonable period within which the case had to be settled has been exceeded. The basic principle is that the hearing of a case at first instance at the hearing must be completed with a final judgment within two years after an action has been taken against the suspect from which he can reasonably expect to be prosecuted, unless this is the case. of special circumstances. In the opinion of the court, that period started when the suspect was first questioned, namely on May 26, 2015. This means that the reasonable period has been exceeded by almost three years. Now that there are no special circumstances, this should lead to a reduction of the sentence.

Partly in view of the exceeding of the reasonable period, the court will impose a community service of shorter duration than that demanded by the public prosecutor.

At the hearing, the suspect stated that his circumstances at the time (such as a divorce) played a role in the charges he was accused of. He has declared that he is now in divorce with his second wife, that he is in debt and that he is in a difficult situation again. The suspect has also stated that he is currently employed by a CV, the owner of which is a [company 1] company of which he is the director.

With the public prosecutor, the court is concerned about the risk of repetition,

having regard to the suspect's past and his current situation, where he appears to be in the same circumstances as at the time of the commission of the proven facts.

That is why the court considers it very important that the suspect gets a stick behind the door in order to prevent repetition. The court will therefore impose a suspended prison sentence of longer duration than that demanded by the public prosecutor.

The applicable articles of law
The penalties to be imposed are based on the articles:

- 14a, 14b, 14c, 22c, 22d, 57, 194 (old) and 341 (old) of the Criminal Code.

These regulations have been applied, as they were in force at the time of the proven proven or in force at the time of this judgment.

5 Decision
The court:

declares legally and convincingly proven that the accused committed the facts under 1 primary and 2 charged, as stated above under 3.5 and that it proves proven:

with regard to fact 1 primarily:

as director of a legal person that has been declared bankrupt,

fraudulently shortening the rights of creditors of the legal person,

do not comply with his obligations with regard to keeping an administration pursuant to Article 15i of Book 3 of the Dutch Civil Code and the storage and production of books, documents and other data carriers, in that article meant d;

with regard to fact 2:

have been declared bankrupt, have been legally called to provide information, refuse to provide the required information;

declares the proven and the suspect criminal offense for it;

declares that it has not been proven that what has been charged to the suspect more or differently than has been proven proven above and acquits the suspect thereof;

condemns the suspect to:

community service for the time of 40 (FORTY) HOURS;

in case the convicted person does not properly perform community service, orders that alternative custody be applied for the time of 20 (TWENTY) DAYS;

recommends that the time spent by the convict in insurance before the execution of this judgment be fully deducted from the execution of community service, insofar as that time has not already been deducted from another sentence;

determines the standard according to which the deduction will be made at 2 hours per day in accordance with Article 27 of the Criminal Code;

further condemns the suspect to:

a prison sentence of 2 (TWO) MONTHS;

provides that that sentence will not be executed under the general condition that the convict is not guilty of a criminal offense before the end of the two-year probation period hereby laid down.

This judgment was passed by

mr. P. van Essen, chairman,

mr. B.F.M. Klappe, judge,

mr. J. Schaaf, judge,

in the presence of mr. H.A.F. Tromp, registrar,

and pronounced at the public hearing of this court on March 27, 2020.

When reference is made hereafter to an official report, unless otherwise stated, this means an official official report, drawn up in the legal form by (an) authorized investigative officer (s). Where reference is made to file pages, this concerns the pages of the official report with the file number BVH-nr. 2015326599, of The Hague Police Unit, Regional Criminal Investigation Department, with annexes (numbered pages 2 to 911).

Minutes of findings, with an extract from the Chamber of Commerce as an appendix, pp. 68 - 70.

A document, namely a judgment of the court of The Hague, Team Insolventies, delivered on May 7, 2013, pp. 46 - 47.

A document, being a bankruptcy fraud declaration by the trustee dated 13 December 2013, with annexes, pp. 31 - 34.

Official report findings of 9 May 2016, pp. 460 - 462.

Writings, namely a standard form for reporting bankruptcy fraud and a printout of an e-mail message from the bankruptcy trustee dated 30 September 2013, pp. 42 - 45.

Official report of the suspect's interrogation dated 9 November 2015, pp. 527 and 528.

Statement of the suspect at the hearing on 13 March 2020.

A document, being a bankruptcy fraud declaration by the trustee dated 13 December 2013, with annexes, pp. 31 - 34.

A document, namely a printout of an e-mail message from the trustee dated 22 May 2013, page 52.

A document, namely a printout of an e-mail message from the trustee dated 28 May 2013, pp. 51 - 52.

A document, namely a printout of an e-mail message from the trustee dated 3 June 2013, pp. 50-51.

A document, namely a printout of an email message from the curator dated June 17, 2013, page 50.

A document, namely a printout of an e-mail message from the curator dated July 4, 2013, pp. 49-50.

A document, namely a printout of an e-mail message from the trustee dated 6 August 2013, page 49.

A document, namely a printout of an e-mail message from the curator dated September 11, 2013, page 49.

A document, namely a letter from the suspect to the trustee dated 20 August 2013, received and seen by the trustee on 16 September 2013, page 48.

A document, being a bankruptcy fraud declaration by the trustee dated 13 December 2013, with annexes, pp. 31 - 34.

Official report of the suspect's interrogation dated 26 May 2015, pp. 492 and 495.

Official report of the suspect's interrogation dated 9 November 2015, pp. 527 and 528.