Pronunciation


COURT OF THE HAGUE
Civil Law Department

Case number: 200.258.332 / 01

Case-number Court: C / 09/569755 / KG ZA 19/237

Judgment of January 28, 2020
About this

[the woman] ,

choosing a place of residence at the address of its lawyer in Voorburg,

appellant,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer: mr. J.C.G.J. van der Linden in Voorburg,

against

[the man] ,

residing in [place of residence],

intimidated,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer: mr. F. Kellouh in The Hague.

1 Proceedings
The woman appealed on 12 April 2019 to the judgment of 14 March 2019 of the preliminary relief judge in the court of The Hague, team trade, between the parties.

In the statement of grievances, the woman formulated two grievances.

In response, the man put up a defense.

The parties have requested a judgment, the woman has submitted her trial file for this purpose.

The assessment of the appeal

2 Facts

1. Parties have had an affective relationship with each other. Two still underage children were born from this relationship:

- [name one], born on [in] 2013, and

- [name two], born on [in] 2015.

2. The parties jointly have authority over [name one], the woman only has parental authority over [name two]. The minors stay with the woman.

3. The order for interim relief of March 8, 2018 stipulates, among other things, that the man, until otherwise decided in the main proceedings, will have weekly contact with the minors for one hour, accompanied by a neutral third person and a neutral person. location - preferably via Samen Veilig or the Omgangshuis - and that the woman will cooperate in this.

4. In a subsequent summary procedure, the parties reached an agreement with regard to the visitation procedure on 28 August 2018, which agreement will be included in an official report signed by both parties. The agreement as included in the official report reads as follows:

- From September 8, 2018, guided intercourse will take place between the man and the children via the Omgangshuis in [place name] or another location to be agreed upon in consultation, starting with 3 times 1 hour from noon to 1 p.m. on Saturday or Sunday. The parties will have an intake interview at Het Omgangshuis before 8 September 2018.

- Afterwards the passage is extended to 3 times 3 hours from 12:00 to 15:00 on Saturday or Sunday.

- Afterwards the passage is extended to 3 times from 12:00 to 18:00 on Saturday or Sunday.

- Then the passage is extended to 3 times 9:00 am to 6:00 pm on Saturday or Sunday.

- After the second moment of interaction from 9:00 am to 6:00 pm, an evaluation meeting will take place between the parties. If the evaluation shows that the interaction is going well, the association will be extended with an overnight stay. The overnight stay will take place the second or third Saturday after the evaluation. The meeting will then take place from 9:00 am on Saturday to 6:00 pm on Sunday.

- The facetime conversations between the man and the children continue under the supervision of a social worker ([name]).

- Parties each bear their own legal costs.

- Parties agree to cancellation of the procedure as of today.

5. In subsequent summary proceedings, the parties subsequently agreed at the hearing of 18 October 2018 that the WilmaHuis will supervise the provisional access arrangements agreed on 28 August 2018. This agreement has been laid down in an official report signed by both parties.

3 Appeal

6. The husband wishes the wife's compliance with the agreements made, as laid down in the official report of 29 (the court understands 28) August 2018, under determination of a penalty. The woman is of the opinion that contact between the man and the minors should only take place under supervision.

7. The preliminary relief judge, with changes to the aforementioned official report of 28 August 2018, ordered the woman to cooperate in the provisional care arrangement, whereby the minors will be with the man - without supervision by third parties -:

- on Saturday, March 16, 2019 from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.

- every other week from Saturday 9:00 am to Sunday 5:00 pm, with the first weekend taking place on Saturday March 30, 2019;

where the man will pick up the children at the WilmaHuis and return the children there.

The preliminary relief judge ordered the woman to pay a penalty of € 250 for every time she does not implement the provisional care regulation, with a maximum of € 5,000.

The judgment has been declared enforceable with stock, the legal costs have been compensated and the more or less advanced claim has been rejected.

4 Scope of Dispute

8. The woman claims that the court, insofar as practicable if available in stock, set aside the judgment under appeal and, once again, giving the following judgment:

- rejects the man's claims;

- ordering the man to pay the costs of the proceedings in both instances, payable within 7 days of the delivery of the judgment, stipulating that if the costs of the proceedings have not been paid within the aforementioned period, statutory interest is due on the eighth day .

9. The man puts up a defense and claims - as the court understands his petitum - that the court, insofar as possible with stock:

- in her appeal, the woman declares inadmissible or dismisses her claim for annulment of the contested judgment, upholding the contested judgment;

- orders the woman to pay the costs of the proceedings in both instances, payable within 7 days of the delivery of the judgment, under the condition that if the costs of the proceedings have not been paid within the aforementioned period, interest is due on the eighth day.

Parties positions

10. First of all, the woman indicates that it does not feel good for her to submit the statement of objections because the parties seem to have come closer together and that the statement of objections could change that. She has nevertheless lodged the statement of objections because it is important for her to be able to make agreements free from the threat of a penalty payment. The woman then puts forward the following in support of her appeal. The woman is of the opinion that almost the impossible has been expected of her, now that she had to give the children to the man for unaccompanied association while there were all kinds of contraindications. For example, [name a] himself indicated that he did not want and dared not go to the man. Meanwhile, the school also expressed concerns about the well-being and functioning of [name one]; this started around the time the association with the man was started. The school strongly recommended that [name one] be treated for what he has seen and experienced, but the man did not give permission for this. The woman herself was threatened by the man when she came to bring the children unaccompanied, which increased her fear and the confidence in the man fell to freezing. In a conversation with the advising child psychologist, [name one] has issued various signals that she has classified as serious. Based on this, a report was made to Veilig Thuis. Because the woman wanted to wait for the results of the soil procedure, the report was temporarily held by Veilig Thuis. At the time of the summary proceedings, these concerns were already affecting the woman. The woman was stuck between the interest of the man to see the children and the importance of the children to maintain a bond with the man, on the one hand, and the great concern that she had and has for the welfare of the children, on the other. The woman, as the main carer of the children, does not consider unaccompanied interaction between the husband and the children to be in the children's interest. The woman indicates that she felt intimidated at the hearing of 28 August 2018 and that she was unable to express her feelings and wishes sufficiently, partly due to the confrontation with the man. As a result, she agreed to an arrangement that was not actually borne by her and was unable to meet these agreements. According to the woman, the imposed penalty is out of place, since she is not reluctant to cooperate and also has the contraindications for intercourse mentioned above. The woman offers evidence of her claim that there are contraindications to intercourse, which are endorsed by the internal supervisor of the school, by submitting various statements.

11. The man defends and states that there are no contraindications for unaccompanied interaction between him and the children. He has always been good to the children and the relationship between him and the children is now also going well. According to him, the penalty payment has played a clear role in this. Previously, the woman stopped intercourse time after time and now she thinks and frustrates the intercourse for no reason and based on falsehoods. According to the man, it is not correct and it has not been established that [name one] would not want to go to him. Nor are the school's concerns raised by the woman. Guidance and permission of [name one] was not discussed with the man at the time, he was kept everywhere. It is a well-known fact that school performance of children can deteriorate during a divorce. This has nothing to do with any access arrangements. Moreover, the documents show that the relationship between the man and the children is only good for the children. The situation about the threat has been completely taken out of context by the woman. The report to Veilig Thuis mentioned by the woman was closed immediately after a conversation with the man took place and Veilig Thuis investigated the situation. According to the man, it follows from the above that the imposition of the penalty is more than justified, since the woman has systematically not cooperated in establishing an (unaccompanied) contact arrangement in the absence of contraindications. The man further disputes that there was intimidation during the hearing on August 28, 2018. The agreements were made by parties and their lawyers, in a separate room of the court.

5 Reasons of the Decision

12. The Court of Appeal first of all states that the present proceedings concern proceedings for interim relief, which concern the taking of a disciplinary measure.

13. The starting point, as also indicated by the preliminary relief judge, is the provisional care arrangement that the parties agreed at the hearing of the preliminary relief judge on 28 August 2018, and which is laid down in the official report of the same date. The court assumes that this is an agreement that has been legally concluded between the parties. The woman was assisted by a lawyer at the hearing and in the conclusion of the agreement. Furthermore, the court does not conclude from what has been put forward by the woman or from the documents submitted that the woman is in any way forced to agree to this provisional care arrangement. Moreover, in two new interim relief proceedings, the regulation was brought up for discussion at a preliminary relief judge within two months. The woman was also assisted here by a lawyer and had the opportunity to raise her objections to the agreement, which she apparently did not. After all, the parties agreed there that the contact arrangements of 28 August 2018 will be complied with, only now through another neutral third person, namely the WilmaHuis.

14. The Court of Appeal agrees with the preliminary relief judge that there is no evidence of compelling interests of the minors who oppose (unaccompanied) interaction between the man and the minors and against the extension of contacts between the man and the minors. The court agrees with and takes over the grounds of the preliminary relief judge. Also on appeal there has been no evidence of compelling interests on the basis of which the interests of the minors would oppose contact with the man as laid down in the official report of 28 August 2018, and which has since been amended by the preliminary relief judge in the contested judgment. The woman did not bring any documents to appeal on appeal that could lead to a different judgment. From the documents submitted, the court has not shown any contraindications for (unaccompanied) interaction between the man and the minors. The reports of the WilmaHuis show that the relationship between the man and the minors went well. The court ignores what the woman states with regard to the advising child psychologist. The email that the woman brought into question as Annex 3 to her statement of grievance was written by one "[name]". In this e-mail, this [name] calls herself the individual caregiver / family supporter for the family and she writes that, from her expertise as a child psychology consultant, she has the authority to analyze and observe behavioral changes. However, the e-mail is only signed with "[name]" and the e-mail address has been made illegible, so that it is in no way possible to find out in the court in which capacity or from what expertise this person issues her advice.

As the court understands from the documents, a (soil) procedure is now also pending between parties, in which procedure a family guardian was appointed on 8 May 2019 who will play a role in the contact process.

All this means that the court will ratify the contested judgment to that extent.

Periodic penalty payments

15. In view of the woman's reluctant attitude to allow intercourse between the man and the minors to take place, the court still considers a penalty payment appropriate. The court will also confirm the contested judgment in that respect.

Offer of Evidence

16. The Court of Appeal ignores the evidence offered by the woman to bring into question various statements in support of the contraindications that it has submitted. Apart from the fact that proceedings for interim relief generally do not lend themselves to admitting evidence, the woman could have brought these statements directly into question in her statement of objections.

Litigation costs

17. In the fact that the parties have had an affective relationship, the Court sees reason to compensate the legal costs - as is usual in cases of a family law nature - in the sense that each party bears its own costs.

6 Decision
The Council:

ratifies the contested judgment of 14 March 2019 of the preliminary relief judge of the court in The Hague delivered between the parties;

compensates the costs of the appeal on appeal in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects what has progressed more or differently.

This judgment was given by mrs. A.H.N. Stollenwerck, A.N. Labohm and P.B. Kamminga and was pronounced in open court on January 28, 2020 in the presence of the Registrar.
