Pronunciation


COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Civil and Tax Law Department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.260.205 / 01

Case number, court: C / 13/652830 FARK 18-5198

Multiple Chamber Order of 10 March 2020 on

[the man] ,

residing in [place A],

applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the man,

lawyer: mr. S. Ben Ahmed in Rotterdam,

and

[the woman] ,

residing in [place A],

defendant on appeal,

further to be called: the woman,

lawyer: mr. A. el Aqde in Amsterdam.

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the Amsterdam court of 27 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1.
On 23 May 2019, the man appealed part of the aforementioned decision of 27 March 2019.

2.2.
The woman filed a defense on 31 July 2019.

2.3.
The oral hearing took place on January 22, 2020. Published are:

- the man, assisted by Mr M. Ahmadi, attorney at Rotterdam.

- the woman, assisted by her lawyer. Ms H. Manneke acted as an interpreter in the Spanish language for the woman.

2.4.
At the hearing, the husband's lawyer, with the wife's consent, presented the minutes of the oral hearing at first instance.

2 Facts
3.1.
Parties were married [in] 2015 in [place B], Morocco. The man has Dutch nationality and the woman has Spanish nationality. It is not in dispute that Dutch law applies to the matrimonial property regime of the parties.

The marriage was dissolved on September 26, 2019 by registration of the divorce decision of March 27, 2019.

Born out of marriage:

- [child A], [in] 2016;

- [child B], [in] 2017 (hereinafter jointly: the children).

The children stay with the woman.

3.2.
The former marital home is a rental home at the [address], [place A] (hereinafter also: the former marital home).

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1.
The divested decision was pronounced at the request of both parties in the contested decision. In addition, insofar as it is currently relevant, it has been determined that the woman will be the tenant of the house at the address [address], [place A], with effect from the day on which the divorce order is registered in the registers of civil status. . Both parties had requested that the tenancy law of the house be assigned. Furthermore, the man's request to divide the household effects was rejected.

4.2.
With the annulment of the contested decision, the man requests that he be a tenant of the former matrimonial home with effect from the day on which the divorce decree is registered in the registers of civil status and that the contents of the matrimonial home are halved is divided between the parties, all in mutual consultation between the parties.

4.3.
The woman requests that the contested decision be ratified and the man ordered to pay the costs of the appeal.

4 Reasons of the Decision
5.1.
The appeal concerns the tenancy law of the former marital home and the request of the husband to divide the household effects.

Tenancy law former marital home

5.2.
The husband is of the opinion that the court has wrongly determined that the woman will be a tenant of the former marital home. According to the man, the court wrongly let the interest of the woman prevail over the interest of the man when weighing up the interests. Contrary to the court's judgment, the man cannot stay with family. Because he could no longer stay with his mother, he has become homeless and has been wandering for a short time. His benefit has been suspended for four months. As of April 29, 2019, he has a postal address with the Salvation Army, but his benefits have not yet resumed. The man states that he continued to pay the rent for the house until his benefits were suspended. According to him, a rent arrears because the woman does not pay the rent. The man considers it reasonable that (the tenancy of) the house is allocated to him, because he continued to pay the fixed costs after his departure. In addition, the woman with the children is more likely to be eligible for urgency than herself. The mere fact that the children have their primary residence with the woman does not mean that the interests of the woman should prevail. The children are so young that it cannot be said that they are used to the house, according to the man.

The man added the following to this on appeal. He still resides with the Salvation Army. He is looking for another home with the help of the Salvation Army and he is registered with Woningnet. It is expected to take about two years before he has a home. He sometimes sleeps with his mother on weekends, but he cannot live there because his mother is then cut on her benefit. He also cannot live with other family or friends.

5.3.
The woman is of the opinion that the court rightly allowed the interests of children and the woman to prevail over the interests of the husband in the allocation of tenancy law. A restraining order was imposed on the man by order of 18 May 2018. The marriage of the parties was marked by threats and domestic violence. The woman has no family in the Netherlands with whom she can stay. The man has family and an extensive network in [place A]. The woman disputes that he would have been homeless. Nor does it appear from the man's documents that his benefit has been suspended for that reason. Apparently, the man is now eligible for access to social care. It must be assumed that he is still in reception. The woman further disputes that the husband paid the rents from May 2018 until the end of his benefits. The man left the woman behind with a rent arrears. She has made a payment arrangement with the landlord and has been paying the rent herself for five months.

The woman added the following to this on appeal. She has social assistance benefits and works as a volunteer. The eldest daughter of the parties goes to the Gnome House and the youngest daughter goes to the crèche. The woman would like to continue living in the house with the children, she has worked very hard for this. She has no network and no other place where she can live with the children. When she returned from Spain with the children in September 2018, the house was completely emptied. This was the reason for the out-of-home placement of the children. A condition for relocation was that the house was habitable again. She managed this with the support of the Home Empowerment foundation. This organization also helped her to catch up on the rent arrears. The man did not pay the rent and because the (then still) joint payment of the parties was paid into the man's account, the woman was unable to pay the rent. Half of this backlog has now been cleared by the woman. She repays monthly and she is able to pay the rent, as she currently does.

5.4.
The court considers as follows. Both parties have an interest in allocating the tenancy law of the former matrimonial home. After weighing up the mutual interests of the parties, the court with the court is of the opinion that the interest of the woman in obtaining the tenancy law of the house outweighs the interest of the man. The court takes the following into account.

The parties together have two daughters of two and three years old respectively. The children have their primary residence with the woman who takes care of them every day. The children have been confronted with unrest and changes in their parenting situation on several occasions in the past period, including a short out-of-home placement at the end of 2018. The court considers it in their interest that they can continue to live with their mother in the environment familiar to them. In addition, the woman has no family or friends in the Netherlands with whom she can stay with the children.

The foregoing means that the court will dismiss the man's appeal and uphold the contested decision on this point.

The household contents

5.5.
The man is of the opinion that the court wrongly rejected his request for distribution of the household effects. He states that he bought the household goods before and during the marriage. He has submitted three witness statements in support of this. He has drawn up a list of various household effects that he claims to have purchased before and during the marriage. He submitted six receipts from 2011 to 2017.

According to the man, in August 2018, when the woman left for Spain, it turned out that she had taken household effects. Without any evidence, the court accepted the woman's claim that the current household effects consist of second-hand goods, which she purchased with the help of social work. According to the man, for lack of evidence, the court should have determined that the existing contents should be divided in half between them.

5.6.
The woman also agrees with the court's decision on this point. She disputes that she took the household effects with her. She went to her mother in Spain in August 2018 with the permission of the man with the children. However, the man then reported child abduction. The woman returned from Spain on September 17, 2018. Then the house turned out to be empty. She went to the neighbor where she had dinner and slept with the children. The above is also apparent from the decision to place supervision and removal from home on 24 September 2018 and the submitted council report. The contents were therefore actually already divided without the woman claiming her half, according to the woman.

5.7.
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the man's request to divide the household effects is insufficiently concrete: it is not clear which household goods are to be distributed, at what value and to whom. There is no dispute between the parties that the reference date for the size of the community is July 18, 2018 (the date of submission of the petition for divorce). The list drawn up by the man of the household goods purchased by him, the coupons and witness statements submitted do not indicate what the household contents consisted of on the reference date. In addition, the Court of Appeal agrees with the Court that, partly in view of the dispute by the woman, the husband has insufficiently substantiated that there is currently still household contents that need to be distributed. In this regard, the court considers that the court report in the file shows that on September 17, 2018, when the woman with the children returned from Spain, the house was completely empty, that there were no things and no beds. The court will therefore reject the man's request and also ratify the contested decision on this point.

5.8.
Given the nature of the proceedings, the court sees insufficient reason to order the man to pay the legal costs, as requested by the woman. The court will compensate these costs in the sense that each party bears its own costs.

5 Decision
The Council:

ratifies the order of which appeal, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court;

dismisses the appeal more or differently requested on appeal;

compensates the legal costs in the sense that each party bears its own costs.

This decision was made by mr. M.T. Hoogland, mr. J.M.C. Louwinger-Rijk and mr. W.K. van Duren, in the presence of mr. E.E. Kraan as registrar and was pronounced in public by the chairman on March 10, 2020.
