Pronunciation


verdict

COURT OF NORTH HOLLAND
Trade, Canton and Insolvency

Meeting place Haarlem

case number / roll number: C / 15/281882 / HA ZA 18-774

Judgment of April 1, 2020

in the case of

[claimant],

residing in [place of residence],

claimant,

lawyer mr. J.P. Coach in Haarlem,

against

[defendant],

residing in [place of residence],

defendant,

lawyer formerly mr. M.C. from Rijswijk in Amsterdam,

currently without a lawyer.

The parties will hereinafter be referred to as [claimant] and [defendant].

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

the application for the attachment of a prejudgment attachment of April 6, 2018 with exhibits 1 to 9, with the leave of 9 April 2018 granted by the preliminary relief judge of this court

the writ of summons of May 4, 2018 with exhibits 1 to 12

the deed of domicile on behalf of [claimant] of 30 May 2018

the incidental conclusion of lack of jurisdiction or lack of jurisdiction also conditional incidental conclusion of the guarantee pursuant to Article 224 of 8 August 2018 with exhibits 1 and 2

the conclusion of a reply in the event of a lack of jurisdiction or lack of jurisdiction also conditional incidental conclusion for the guarantee under Article 224 DCCP of 22 August 2018 with exhibits 1 through 18

the statement in the reply in incident also conditional claim in the main proceedings of 26 September 2018 with exhibits 3 to 11

the letter from the District Court of The Hague of 28 September 2018 to the lawyers of the parties regarding the reply in the incident, also conditional claim in the main proceedings, in which it is stated that the court will not heed the deed insofar as it concerns the conditional claim in the main action, now that [defendant] can institute a claim in the counterclaim

the rejoinder in incident of 17 October 2018

the role decision regarding the plea in the incident of the court of The Hague of 14 November 2018

the judgment in incident of the court of The Hague of November 14, 2018, in which the case was referred to this court

the notice convening a referral from [claimant] of 20 November 2018

the reference to the parking roll at the request of the parties of 2 January 2019

the request for further litigation after parking roll for judgment in incident of parties of 27 September 2019

the judgment in the incident under article 224 DCCP of 30 October 2019, in which the claims in the incident were dismissed and the case was referred to the role of 11 December 2019 for the conclusion of the answer in the main proceedings on the part of [defendant]

the B2 form with which mr. Van Rijswijk has withdrawn from the aforementioned as a lawyer of [defendant] as of the roll date of 11 December 2019.

1.2.
Finally, judgment has been determined.

2 Facts
2.1.
On August 26, 1989, parties in community property were married to each other.

2.2.
On 19 December 2017, [defendant] was sentenced - in so far as relevant - to the court of appeal in [place of residence] (La Cour d'Appel de la Principauté de [place of residence], hereinafter: La Cour d'Appel) in preliminary relief proceedings. payment to [claimant] of a monthly amount of maintenance of € 25,000, to be paid in advance on the first day of each month as of December 17, 2017, as well as payment of a lump sum (provision ad litem) of € 50,000 , -. The judgment of La Cour d'Appel is directly enforceable in [place of residence].

2.3.
On December 27, 2017, the judgment of La Cour d'Appel was served on [defendant].

2.4.
[defendant] has not fulfilled his payment obligation to [claimant] under the judgment of La Cour d'Appel.

2.5.
On 9 April 2018, the preliminary relief judge of this court granted leave to impose an interim injunction against [defendant] on real estate and third parties at the request of [claimant] of 6 April 2018.

2.6.
On 10 April 2018, [Claimant] seized a [defendant] protective order on a share belonging to [defendant] in a real estate located in Heemstede and on a real estate belonging to [defendant] in Bennebroek, as well as under ING Bank .

2.7.
On 4 May 2018, [claimant] involved [defendant] in a subpoena in a procedure at the court in The Hague with case and case number C / 09/553174 / HA ZA 18-557. The case was referred to this court by the District Court of The Hague by incidental judgment of 14 November 2018 in the state in which it was then and now has the above case and role number.

3 Scope of Dispute
3.1.
[Claimant] claims in the main action to declare by order executable:

1. to recognize and endorse the judgment of the Court of Justice in [place of residence], La Cour dʻAppel, of December 19, 2017 and to condemn [defendant] in accordance with this judgment to:

 payment to [claimant] of an amount of € 50,000, plus statutory interest from December 19, 2017, at least from the day of the summons until the day of full payment;

 payment to [claimant] of the currently expired maintenance installments of € 150,000, plus statutory interest from the various due dates, at least from the day of the summons until the day of full payment;

 payment to [claimant] of an amount of € 25,000 per month, from 1 June 2018 and subsequently to be paid in advance on the first day of each calendar month, plus the statutory interest calculated from the various due dates;

2. Order [defendant] to pay to [claimant] an amount of € 2,205.53 in attachment costs, plus statutory interest from April 10, 2018, at least from the day of the summons until the day of full payment;

3. Order [defendant] to pay to [claimant] the costs of the proceedings, plus the subsequent costs of € 131 without service, or € 199 in the event of service, to be paid within fourteen days after the date of the judgment, and - in case payment of the (additional) costs does not take place within the stipulated period - plus the statutory interest on the (additional) costs, calculated from the said term for payment.

3.2.
In short, the plaintiff bases this claim on the fact that [defendant] has not complied with the aforementioned conviction. With the judgment, [claimant] has an enforceable title that is not enforceable in the Netherlands by virtue of a treaty or law. It is therefore in the claimant's interest that the judgment is recognized in the Netherlands on the basis of Article 431, paragraph 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv) and that it is enforceable in this country based on that recognition.

3.3.
[defendant] has raised an objection of incompetence and an incident as security for legal costs for all defenses.

3.4.
[Defendant] defends the incident.

3.5.
Insofar as relevant, the statements of the parties will be discussed below.

4 Reasons of the Decision

in the jurisdiction incident

4.1.
Previous judgments (in incident) of the court of The Hague of November 14, 2018 and judgment of this court of October 30, 2019 have already been decided on all incidental claims, with the exception of two grounds in the jurisdiction incident, both of which relate to on the jurisdiction of the Dutch court.

4.2.
[claimant] lives in [place of residence], while [defendant] lives in [place of residence], and parties are married in [country]. This procedure therefore has a strong international character. The jurisdiction of the Dutch court and the relative jurisdiction of the Noord-Holland court have already been assessed and decided by the court of The Hague by judgment in an incident dated 14 November 2018. 3.4 of that judgment, the District Court of The Hague considered the following:

3.4
With regard to the other claims of [defendant] in the jurisdiction incident, the following is noted. Assignment of a claim under Article 431 (2) DCCP can stop on the grounds that the claimant submits a claim to the Dutch court by submitting a claim under Article 431 (2) DCCP, or that the claim recognizable foreign decision under the law of the country of origin is not, is not or is no longer enforceable. In certain circumstances there may also be reason to detain the decision on the basis of Article 431 paragraph 2 DCCP if a legal remedy has been brought against the foreign judgment and a final decision has not yet been taken. However, these defenses should in the main be raised and assessed.

The court will discuss these defenses.

in the main

Jurisdiction

4.3.
In response to the reply in incident, [defendant] stated (1) that the jurisdiction of the Dutch court requires irrevocability of the conviction and (2) that the Dutch court has no jurisdiction in the event of abuse of law.

The court considers this as follows.

Irrevocability of the conviction

4.4.
In its standard judgment Gazprombank (see below in 4.9), the Supreme Court considered, among other things, that the allocation of a claim on the basis of art. 431 paragraph 2 Rv can stop on the ground that the foreign decision that can be recognized under the law of the country of origin is not, or is no longer, enforceable. The fact that this judgment is (possibly) irrevocable because it may (perhaps) be subject to a further appeal, does not affect the enforceability of the judgment as long as that appeal has not actually been lodged and with suspensive effect. Contrary to what [defendant] argues, irrevocability of the conviction is not in itself a criterion for the recognition of the foreign decision under Art. 431 (2) DCCP, nor for whether or not to assume jurisdiction. Since [the defendant] has not stated, nor has it been shown, that a judicial appeal with suspensive effect has been brought against the judgment of La Cour d'Appel, on which no final decision has yet been taken, there is no reason to assume that the judgment has meanwhile would no longer be enforceable, or not yet again, so that this does not impede the jurisdiction of the Dutch judge.

Abuse of rights

4.5.
In the incident to lack of jurisdiction or lack of jurisdiction, [defendant] further argued that jurisdiction of the Dutch court is lacking in case of abuse of rights. Nor does that statement succeed. After all, an affirmative answer to the question whether there has been an abuse of rights does not lead to a lack of jurisdiction, but to the opinion that the claim (in the main proceedings) should be dismissed in that case. However, this defense was raised in the jurisdiction incident and linked to the jurisdiction (which according to [defendant] was not present for that reason). Since no answer has been served in the main action, such a defense is not in issue in the main action.

4.6.
Since both defenses raised by [defendant] cannot lead to a different opinion, the jurisdiction and jurisdiction of this court have been given.

in the incident further

4.7.
In the incident, the decision regarding the legal costs remains. Given the relationship between the parties, those between them will be compensated in the sense that each party in the incident will bear its own costs.

in the main, further

Party debate ended: claim in the main action uncontested

4.8.
The party debate has now ended, since no new lawyer has presented himself for [defendant] after Mr. Van Rijswijk has been withdrawn and [defendant] can only legally conduct legal proceedings in the present main proceedings through the intervention of a lawyer. Since [defendant] has not delivered a statement of answer for the withdrawal of a lawyer, the claims that [plaintiff] put forward in the preliminary summons in support of her claim in the main action have not been disputed. Nor has a claim been brought in a counterclaim.

The only issue at issue is therefore the claim brought by [claimant] in the main action, which is based on Article 431, paragraph 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv) and serves to recognize and uphold the judgment of La Cour between the parties. d'Appel of December 19, 2017.

Decision eligible for recognition?

4.9.
According to settled case law of the Supreme Court, the Dutch judge who, on the basis of art. 431 paragraph 2 DCP is brought to the court again to assess whether and to what extent, in view of the circumstances of the case submitted to him, he grants authority to a decision of the foreign court. The basic principle here is that a foreign decision in principle is recognized in the Netherlands if:

(i) the jurisdiction of the judge who delivered the judgment is based on a ground of jurisdiction which is generally acceptable by international standards,

(ii) the foreign decision has been reached in a judicial proceeding that satisfies the requirements of due process of due process, with adequate guarantees,

the recognition of the foreign decision is not contrary to Dutch public policy and

iv) the foreign decision is not incompatible with a decision of the Dutch court given between the same parties, or with a previous decision of a foreign court made between the same parties in a dispute concerning the same subject and based on the same cause, provided that that earlier decision is open to recognition in the Netherlands.

Submits the claim on the basis of art. 431 paragraph 2 DCCP - as in this case - to condemn what the other party has been sentenced in the foreign decision and the four conditions mentioned above have been met, the court must take the parties' commitment to that decision as the starting point, and the claim is in principle admissible (Supreme Court 26 September 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 2838 (Gazprombank) and Supreme Court 18 January 2019, ECLI: NL: HR: 2019: 54 (Yukos)).

ad (i) ground of jurisdiction generally acceptable by international standards?

4.10.
It is not disputed between the parties that the jurisdiction of the judge who rendered the decision rests on a ground of jurisdiction which is generally acceptable by international standards. It appears from the documents submitted by the parties that, at the time of the divorce petition, the parties were both resident in [place of residence]. According to generally accepted international standards, in matters of matrimonial property law, the court of the country in which the spouses reside is competent. The judgment for which recognition is sought is from La Cour d'Appel de la Principauté de [domicile], therefore the domicile of the plaintiff and (at that time) that of the defendant.

ad (ii) and (iii) purport

4.11.
The conditions referred to in 4.9 under (ii) and (iii) above are intended to prevent a foreign judicial decision from coming into force in the Dutch legal order that, in its conclusion or its content, conflicts with principles and values ​​that are fundamental in the Dutch legal order. be classified. The assessment of whether these conditions are met is not about whether the foreign decision is correct. A judicial decision that would be regarded as incorrect within the Dutch legal order can also be recognized. This is different if recognition, in view of the conclusion or content of the decision in question, conflicts with principles and values ​​that are regarded as fundamental in the Dutch legal order (cf. paragraphs 4.1.3 and 4.1.4 of the aforementioned Yukos judgment of the high Council).

ad (ii) with sufficient guarantees?

4.12.
It is apparent from the exhibits challenged by both parties that [defendant] - both at first instance and in appeal - made his point of view with the assistance of a legal representative and that his position in both instances - at least until [defendant] has withdrawn from the proceedings - has been included in the assessment. The fact that [defendant] has refrained from participating in the latter procedure for reasons of his own must remain at his expense and risk. In any event, it cannot be concluded on the basis of this that the procedure that led to the judgment of La Cour d'Appel of 19 December 2017 has not been provided with sufficient guarantees. In the absence of any further substantive defense in the main action, it must therefore be presumed that the justice in [place of residence] that led to the decision of La Cour d'Appel was provided with sufficient guarantees.

ad (iii) conflict with Dutch public order?

4.13.
Now that [defendant] has not presented an independent substantive defense in the main action against this part and the court also considers that there is no official violation of Dutch public order, this condition does not preclude recognition of the Monegasque judgment. For the sake of completeness, the court notes that the alleged circumstance that a (provisional) maintenance obligation in [place of residence] actually runs from the moment that a final decision in the main proceedings is issued is not in itself a reason to contravene public order. deem.

ad (iv) (earlier) decision by Dutch or foreign judge

4.14.
It has not been alleged or established that this is the case, so that the court does not have to test against this ground.

Conclusion

4.15.
On the basis of the foregoing, the court finds that all the conditions formulated by the Supreme Court for recognition of the present judgment have been met, so that it is eligible for recognition and the claim of [claimant] is therefore ready for allocation, this with taking into account the following.

Principal

4.16.
[Claimant] claims payment of a number of amounts, plus statutory interest. Since almost two years elapsed between the date of the summons and the date of this judgment, time has caught up with the description of the claim. A large number of the advanced maintenance periods have expired and have become due and payable. For the sake of comprehensibility of the operative part, the claim to be allocated will be broken down as follows:

€ 50,000.00 (provision ad litem)

€ 150,000.00 (maintenance periods that have already expired at the time of the preliminary summons) +

€ 200,000.00 - SUBTOTAL

+ alimony periods expired since subpoena per month:

€ 175,000.00 (maintenance periods that have expired after the writ of summons: June to December 2018)

€ 300,000.00 (maintenance periods that have lapsed after the writ of summons: 2019)

€ 100,000.00 (after subpoena up to and including judgment, maintenance periods expire: 2020)

€ 775,000.00 - TOTAL

+ from the date of the judgment per month (including 1 May 2020) maintenance periods still to be canceled:

- € 25,000.00 € 25,000.00 per month.

Seizure costs

4.17.
[Claimant] claims to order [defendant] to pay the attachment costs. In view of the provisions of art. 706 RV assignable. Now that no independent defense has been made against this, the attachment costs are estimated as advanced at a total amount of (€ 1,540.03 + € 423.50 + € 242 =) € 2,205.53.

Interest

4.18.
[claimant] claims reimbursement of the statutory interest as referred to in art. 6: 119 BW.

The interest on the principal and the attachment costs can only be allocated as of the date of subpoena (May 4, 2018), because it has not been stated why the interest is due as of the respective claimed effective dates. The interest on the first maintenance (to be) due subpoena will be allocated with effect from the due dates of the relevant installments, in the sense that the interest of the term that expired on 1 June 2018 is due as of the same date. and so on.

Litigation costs

4.19.
In view of the relationship between the parties, the legal costs between them will be compensated in the sense that each party bears its own costs of this procedure.

5 Decision
The court

In the main

5.1.
acknowledges and confirms the judgment of La Cour d'Appel de la Principauté de [domicile] of 19 December 2017, made between the parties,

5.2.
condemns [defendant] to pay [claimant] an amount of € 775,000 (in words: seven hundred and seventy-five thousand euros), plus the statutory interest as referred to in art. 6: 119 BW about:

the amount of € 50,000 as of May 4, 2018,

the amount of € 150,000.00 as of May 4, 2018 (concerning the expired

maintenance periods from December 2017 to 1 May 2018),

- the amount of € 575,000 as of the relevant due dates

(regarding the expired maintenance periods from 1 June 2018 to

and by April 1, 2020),

until the day of full payment,

5.3.
Condemns [defendant] to pay [claimant] an amount of € 25,000 (in words: twenty-five thousand euros) per month, multiplied by the statutory amount, with effect from 1 May 2020 and then by advance payment on the first day of each calendar month to [claimant]. interest thereon as referred to in art. 6: 119 Civil Code from the relevant date of due and payable, until the day of full payment,

5.4.
orders [defendant] to pay the attachment costs, estimated to date at € 2,205.53, plus statutory interest as referred to in art. 6: 119 BW on this amount with effect from May 4, 2018 until the day of full payment,

5.5.
declares this judgment enforceable with stock,

5.6.
rejects more or less advanced,

In the main proceedings and in the incident

5.7.
offsets the costs of this procedure between the parties in that each party bears its own costs.

This judgment was rendered by mr. A.H. Schotman and pronounced in public in the presence of the Registrar on 1 April 2020.