Pronunciation


COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Civil and Tax Law Department

Team III (family and youth law)

case number: 200.269.168 / 01

case number court: C / 13/670772 / JE RK 19-731

Multi-Chamber Order of 24 March 2020 on

[the mother] ,

residing in [place of residence],

applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the mother,

lawyer: mr. M.G. Blokziel in Almere,

and

Child Protection Council,

established in The Hague,

location Amsterdam,

defendant on appeal,

to be called further: the council.

Stakeholders identified include:

- the minor [A] (hereinafter referred to as [Child A]);

- the minor [B] (hereinafter referred to as: [child B]);

- [the father] (hereinafter referred to as: the father);

- the certified institution Youth Protection Region Amsterdam (hereinafter referred to as: the GI).

1 Proceedings

The course of the proceedings at first instance
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in the Amsterdam court of 27 August 2019 (hereinafter referred to as: the juvenile court judge), pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1
The mother appealed on 12 November 2019 to the aforementioned decision of 27 August 2019.

2.2
By letter of 11 December 2019, which arrived on 12 December 2019, the Board has stated that it will not submit a written defense, but it did provide further information on the state of affairs with that letter.

2.3
The father filed a statement of defense on January 23, 2020.

2.4
The following documents were also received at the court:

- a letter from the mother of 10 February 2020 with an attachment, received on 11 February 2020;

- a fax from the mother's side of 13 February 2020 with an attachment, received on the same date;

- a letter from the mother of 14 February 2020 with an attachment, received on 17 February 2020;

- an email from the Board of February 20, 2020 with attachment (being the same attachment as received by the aforementioned letter of February 14, 2020);

- a fax from the mother's side of 20 February 2020 with attachments received on the same date.

2.5
The chairman spoke with [child A] and [child B] before the meeting.

2.6
The oral hearing took place on February 24, 2020. Published are:

- the mother, assisted by her lawyer;

- the council, represented by Mrs. D.M. van Dijk;

- the father, assisted by his lawyer, mr. C.J.P. Liefting, lawyer in Mijdrecht;

- the GI, represented by the family manager and a colleague.

2.7
At the appeal court, the court decided that the above-mentioned documents received on 20 February 2020 on the part of the mother, being exhibits 5 to 16, will be disregarded, because these documents are necessary only four days prior to the oral proceedings have been received at the registry of the court of appeal and the proper order of procedure does not preclude this.

2 Facts
3.1
The marriage of the mother and father, which has meanwhile been dissolved by divorce, has resulted in:

- [child A] [in] 2004 in [place of birth];

- [child B] [in] 2007 in [place of birth].

[child A] and [child B] are hereinafter jointly referred to as "the children".

3.2
The mother and the father (hereinafter jointly: the parents) jointly exercise authority over the children. The children stay with the mother.

3.3
The father and children have not had contact with each other since the parents split up in January 2017.

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1
The contested decision placed children under the supervision of the GI, in accordance with the Council's request, from 27 August 2019 to 27 May 2020.

4.2
With the annulment of the contested decision, the mother requests that the council's preliminary request be rejected.

4.3
The father requests that the contested decision be ratified.

4.4
At the appeal court, the court understands, the council took the position that the grounds for the supervision are no longer present, so that the contested decision must be set aside to that extent.

4 Reasons of the Decision
5.1
The next question is whether the grounds for supervising the children were present at the time of the contested decision and, if so, whether these grounds are still present.

5.2
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), a judge can place a minor under the supervision of a certified institution if that minor grows up in such a way that he is seriously threatened in his development, and:

the care that is necessary in connection with the removal of the threat for the minor or for his parents or the parent who exercises authority, is not or insufficiently accepted by these, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise the authority within a term that is considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor, the responsibility for the care and upbringing, referred to in Section 1: 247 (2) of the Dutch Civil Code. , be able to wear.

5.2
The mother states that there are no grounds for the supervision of the children. The children are doing well. They live with the mother in a stable, quiet and safe environment. The children do not show child signals. The mother refers to case law that would show that the children's rejection of the father is insufficient to speak of a serious developmental threat. Moreover, a custody order may not only be pronounced in order to establish contact arrangements. The woman refers to the ruling of the Supreme Court of 13 April 2001 (ECLI: NL: HR: 2001: AB1009). The mother does not hinder contact between the father and the children, provided that the man is first treated for his alcohol and aggression problems. Since the separation of the parents, the mother has also always tried to establish a care and contact arrangement between the father and the children. However, the father never cooperated, which led to disappointments. The children no longer need contact with the father. They have stated this several times consistently and with various authorities. This should not be ignored. Parental care is also sufficiently accepted. The parents have already voluntarily started a counseling process to see whether contact recovery can be achieved within that framework.

5.3
In summary, [child A] and [child B] said that they do not want contact with the father and that they do not want to be forced to associate. There is no cause for concern. They are doing well.

5.4
The Board announced at the appeal hearing that it will not file a defense, in view of the most recent information from Altra. At the time of the first instance hearing, the grounds for the supervision of the children were present, but not anymore. Although the children's statements about (the lack of) dealings with the father are worrying and it is important for the development of the children that they can form an image of their father, sufficient opportunities are now being seen for assistance in a voluntary framework to address this development threat. The father is now being treated at De Waag. In addition, Altra will further assist the father in writing a letter to the children. The mother also says she will cooperate with Altra's assistance. This may eventually lead to restoration of contact between the father and the children. Furthermore, there are no developmental problems in the children.

5.5
The GI joined the Board's position at the appeal hearing.

5.6
The father states in his defense that supervision of the children is necessary in order to restore contact between him and the children. It is important for the development of the children that they have contact with both parents. The children need help. There seems to be parentification. Since the parties split up, various authorities have already tried to get the mother to cooperate, without any result. The man has stopped drinking and has been under treatment at De Waag since August 15, 2019. At the appeal hearing, it was emphasized on behalf of the father that the judge should also ex officio assess whether there are grounds for (continued) supervision of the children. The children are very damaged. The mother does not give her emotional permission to contact the father. A forced framework is necessary for the mother to cooperate with the assistance. Nothing has changed in that regard since the first instance hearing.

5.7
The court considers as follows. The documents show that during the marriage of the parents there was domestic violence, of which the children also witnessed. After a scuffle between the parents took place in January 2017, the father left. The children have never spoken or seen the father since. The council's concerns regarding the request for the supervision of the children were mainly due to the complex divorce of the parents and the tensions that this entailed, as well as the fact that the children had not been in contact with their father for so long. The children had developed a very negative father image, which is detrimental to their identity development. In addition, the council found the children's firm statements about their father worrying. For example, they said that their father does not deserve contact with them. Partly in view of the children's young age, such statements are indicative of loyalty problems, according to the council. Assistance in a voluntary framework to restore contact between the father and the children has often not got off the ground. The council therefore considered a forced framework necessary, so that research could be done, in short, into the question of the extent to which the children have loyalty problems and what the possibilities are for restoring contact with the father.

In view of the aforementioned concerns of the council and the fact that assistance has not got off the ground several times in the voluntary context, the court with the juvenile court judges that the grounds for a supervision were present at the time of the contested decision. As is clear from the above, contrary to what the mother argues, the supervision has been pronounced not only to establish contact arrangements, but to identify and, where possible, reverse a developmental threat to the children. The court will ratify the contested decision to that extent.

5.8
It was further revealed at the appeal hearing that the investigation deemed necessary by the Board has now been carried out. Altra spoke to the children and, in short, concluded that contact recovery is not appropriate at this time. The children currently benefit most from rest; contact should not be forced. It also turned out at the hearing that the father is now being treated at De Waag for his (aggression) problems. This can help restore the children's confidence in him. In addition, it has been found that Altra remains involved to guide the father in any contact recovery. The first step is to write a letter to the children. The mother has stated that she is awaiting the arrival of this letter and will then discuss this with the children.

The court, together with the council and the GI, is of the opinion that the necessary assistance with this involvement of Altra will also be sufficiently guaranteed in a voluntary framework. It has become clear that both parents currently accept sufficient care. Therefore, the grounds for a supervision are no longer present. The fact that the eventual contact recovery between the father and the children may still be far away in time makes no difference. The court will annul the contested decision to that extent and reject the preliminary request of the council.

5.9
This leads to the next decision.

5 Decision
The Council:

ratifies the decision appealed, insofar as [child A] and [child B] have been supervised to date;

quashes the decision whose appeal is otherwise, and to the extent that this is again conclusive;

Rejects the introductory request from the Board for the supervision of [Child A] and [Child B], insofar as this relates to the period as of today;

under the provisions of the Decree on authority registers, order the registrar to send a copy of this decision to the registrar of the Amsterdam court, civil law department, family and youth law team, for the attention of the public register.

This decision was made by mr. J.F. Miedema, mr. A.V.T. de Bie and mr. M. Fiege, in the presence of mr. C. de Bruin as registrar and was pronounced in public by the chairman on March 24, 2020.
