Pronunciation


COURT OVERIJSSEL
Team Family and Youth Law

Meeting place Almelo

case number: C / 08/237331 / FA RK 19-2195

decision of April 3, 2020

on

[applicant],

further to be called: the man,

residing in [residence 1],

applicant,

lawyer: mr. W.F.A. Black Peters,

and

[defendant],

further to be called: the woman,

residing in [residence 2],

defendant,

lawyer: M. Tijken.

1 Proceedings
The court has taken note of the following documents:

- the request with attachments, received on September 12, 2019;

- the defense with attachments, received on November 25, 2019;

- the email from mr. Tijken received on 3 December 2019;

- the role report of Mr. Zwart-Peters with appendices received on 22 January 2020;

- the e-mail received on 31 January 2020 from mr. Tijken with attachments.

The oral hearing of the case took place with closed doors on February 3, 2020. The following appeared and heard at the hearing: the parties, both assisted by their lawyer.

After the oral hearing, the following were received with the permission of the court:

- the role report of mr. Tijken with attachments, which was received on February 18, 2020;

- the letter from Mr. Zwart-Peters with attachments, received on February 28, 2020.

2 Facts
Parties have been married to each other.

Divorce between the parties was pronounced by order of this court of 29 November 2016.

This decision was entered in the civil registers on 20 December 2016. In that decision, the contribution to be paid by the man to the woman in the cost of her living was set at € 2,223 per month.

The parties subsequently made further agreements and recorded these in a divorce settlement signed by them on March 31, 2017 and April 3, 2017 respectively. By order of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal of 2 May 2017, the order of the court was annulled as regards the contribution to the subsistence of the woman as determined therein and was decided in accordance with the divorce settlement concluded between the parties. This divorce settlement is part of that court order.

The parties entered into a settlement agreement on January 10, 2018. The parties have agreed, among other things, that with effect from 1 January 2018, the man will pay € 1,871 gross per month as a contribution towards the living costs of the woman.

3 Appeal
The man requests the court by decision, as far as practicable where possible, primarily:

- declare in law that the obligation of the husband to pay to the wife a contribution towards the cost of living as of October 1, 2017, at least as of May 9, 2018, or at least as determined by the court date has ended on the grounds of Article 1: 160 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW);

- order the woman to repay the alimony which she has received in error, amounting to a total of € 44,089, or at least an amount to be determined by the court, plus the statutory interest within four weeks after the notification of this order;

- order the woman to hand over the documents referred to in the application under number 67 a to 1 to the man within fourteen days after the notification of this order, in the event that the man is given an evidence order;

alternatively:

- to determine that the maintenance to be paid by the man to the woman will be set at nil from 9 May 2018, at least from a date to be determined by the court, with the woman being ordered to repay the wrongfully received amounts;

both primary and alternative:

- order the woman to pay the costs of the detective agency of € 9,256.10;

- order the woman to pay the costs of these proceedings, including the costs of the preliminary examination of witnesses.

The man primarily states - briefly and succinctly - the following.

The man suspects that the woman has had an affective relationship with Mr [A] since April 2017. The woman started living with [A] in October 2017 within the meaning of Article 1: 160 BW.

In support of this statement, the man brought in a large number of pieces of evidence, including a report by detective agency [X]. The detective agency made observations along the plot and around the home of [A] at [address 1] / [address 2] in the period from 19 September to 24 October 2018. There has also been a preliminary witness hearing, during which the woman and [A] were heard as witnesses. On the basis of the findings in this report and the statements made by the woman and [A] during the witness examination, it must be concluded that there is a lasting affective, mutual care and running a common household within the meaning of the aforementioned article.

Alternatively, the husband states that the woman is no longer needy. The woman has an obligation, not only on the basis of the law, but also on the basis of the divorce agreement concluded between the parties, to make every effort to generate an income with which she can fully support herself. The woman works only twelve hours a week. The woman does not apply, although this can be expected from her. The woman has assets and the woman may under these special circumstances be expected to intend on these assets, or at least to generate income with them.

The woman has deliberately misled and manipulated the man and others around him for the sole purpose of financial gain. The man was forced to call in the detective agency. This has also made it necessary to hold a preliminary witness examination. The man therefore considers it reasonable to order the woman to pay the costs of the detective agency and of this procedure.

The defense
The woman disputes - succinctly stated - that she lives with [A] within the meaning of Article 1: 160 BW. She acknowledges that there is a lasting and affectionate relationship, but she denies that [A] and they live together, that they mutually take care of each other and that there is a common household.

The positions of the parties are discussed in more detail below during the assessment.

4 Reasons of the Decision

Admissibility

The husband states that there is a change of circumstances in that the woman lives with another person as if they were married or that the woman is no longer in need. This means that the man can be received in his request. Whether these changed circumstances should also lead to a change in the currently applicable contribution to the maintenance of women will be assessed below.

The alleged cohabitation within the meaning of Article 1: 160 BW

In order to give an affirmative answer to the question of whether there is a cohabitation within the meaning of Article 1: 160 BW, it is required that there is an affective relationship of lasting nature between the cohabitants, which means that the divorced spouse and the other take care of each other, live together and run a common household.

The exceptional and irrevocable nature of the sanction contained in Article 1: 160 BW requires that this provision be interpreted restrictively, which means that it is not quick to assume that the requirements for termination of the maintenance obligation set by this provision have been met. (cf. HR July 13, 2001, ECLI: NL: HR: 2001: ZC3603; HR June 3, 2005, ECLI: NL: HR: 2005: AS5961).

Affective relationship of a sustainable nature

The woman has finally recognized that there is a lasting, affective relationship, so that this condition is met. This means that the man's statements about this need not be further discussed in his petition. However, having a (lasting) affective relationship does not mean that there is living together within the meaning of Article 1: 160 BW.

As stated above, for an affirmative answer to the question whether there is a cohabitation within the meaning of Article 1: 160 BW, it must also be established that the divorced spouse and the other mutually take care of each other, live together and have a common household. feed. Pursuant to settled case law of the Supreme Court, mutual care only exists if the cohabitants in fact each contribute either to the costs of the joint household or otherwise provide each other's care.

Cohabitation

The court will first elaborate on whether there is a cohabitation.

The woman denies that there is cohabitation. She states that she is employed as (administrative) employee of [company] B.V. (hereinafter referred to as [company]), a company of [A] that was later taken over by his son. This is a company that imports and exports American cars. She works in that company for twelve hours a week. Partly because of her work, she lives on the plot of [A], but she does not live there with [A] in his house. She lives in a hunting lodge on the plot at [address 2]. [A] lives at number [address 1]. This hunting cabin is suitable for habitation and has three sleeping places. The two children of the parties regularly stay with the woman in the hunting lodge. The hunting cabin is heated by a wood stove. The woman pays [A] a rent of € 650 per month. The rent includes the costs for gas, water and light. [address 2] has its own waste container with an accompanying environmental pass. The woman pays the municipal taxes of [address 2] and she also pays the insurance required for that house. She does occasionally sleep with [A] and they sometimes eat together in the house of [A]. It is the intention that the woman will eventually live in the horse stable. This is currently being converted into independent living space and is also located at [address 2].

In support of his statement that the woman lives with [A], the man submitted the report of the detective agency. In the period from 19 September to 24 October 2018, this agency made observations along the plot of [A] and around the house of [A] at the [address 1] / [address 2] in [place].

In the opinion of the court, these observations have shown the following

The detective agency started observing on Wednesday September 19, 2018.

No details were observed on that day. The next observation took place on Tuesday, September 25, 2018. In that week, observations were also made on Wednesday, September 26, Thursday, September 27 and Friday, September 28, 2018.

According to the observations in that week, both the woman and [A] were not present on the [A] lot. The woman states that she was in Austria with her work in the aforementioned week with [A]. The court ignores that statement, now that the man has printed a screenshot of a Whatsapp message from the woman showing that the woman was in Austria in the last week of September and that she was off that week. The man has made it sufficiently plausible that the woman spent a week's holiday in Austria with [A] during that week. The woman subsequently did not substantiate that there was nevertheless work in that period.

Observations in the period from September 29 to October 24, 2018 showed that the woman stayed in the home of [A] late at night and also early in the morning on the days of observation. The detective agency observed a total of 19 days during that period. None of the lights burned in the lodge on any of these days, and even after the lights in [A] 's house were turned off, the woman was never seen on the way to the lodge. In the opinion of the court, these observations sufficiently show that there is more than sleeping and eating together occasionally. The fact that it has not been observed for a longer continuous period and for whole days, but in most cases in the morning, around dinner and in the evenings is sufficient for this. In view of the times when the woman was observed in the home of [A], often late in the evening and the following morning, the court is of the opinion that the conclusion is justified that the woman and [A] in the observed periods practically spent all nights together in the house of [A]. In view of the fact that during the observation period the woman and [A] saw each other (almost) daily in the house of the [A] and the gathering involved many evenings and mornings in a row, the court is of the opinion that sufficient to establish that the woman and [A] actually live together.

Common housekeeping and mutual care

For a successful appeal to article 1: 160 BW it is not sufficient that there is a cohabitation and a lasting affective relationship, but also the other cumulative requirements must be met, namely that there is a result of mutual care and feeding of a common household. The parts of mutual care and running a joint household imply a certain entanglement, in the sense that the parties involved contribute to the costs of the joint household or otherwise provide each other's care.

In the opinion of the court, it has been sufficiently demonstrated that there is a common household and mutual care. The court considers the following to be decisive in this respect. The woman has acknowledged that she regularly drives a Nissan of [A], at least of [company]. In addition, the woman also regularly drives two other cars ([car brand 1] and [car brand 2]) of [A], or of [company]. All these cars have a German dealer badge. This was also noted during the various observations. The court does not consider it plausible that the woman drives these cars (alone) in the context of her position as administrative employee of [company] for the duration of 12 hours. After all, [A] stated during the witness examination that the woman carries out administrative work for him at the office.

According to the extract from the commercial register of the Chamber of Commerce, [company] is located at the address [address 1] in [place]. This is also the visiting address.

The office of [company] is therefore located on the plot of [A], which the woman also confirmed during the witness examination. In the opinion of the court, the use of a car is not necessary to perform the function of administrative assistant. The court therefore assumes that the woman drives these cars privately. The fact that the woman does refuel on her own account does not change the judgment of the court.

Furthermore, during the preliminary witness examination, the woman stated that she regularly performs household chores at [A] 's home. The court considers the woman's statement that she performs those activities as an employee of [company] not or insufficiently plausible. As the court considered above, [company] is a company that imports and exports American cars. The woman has submitted a copy of her employment contract. That agreement does not indicate an obligation to perform household activities. The statement by the woman and [A] that she performs (light) household activities such as ironing and cleaning for [A], because the administrative work often causes health problems for her - she has complaints on both shoulders - which firstly alienates the court, because these activities are not included in her job description. Moreover, in the opinion of the court, doing these (light) household activities does not seem to be less burdensome for the shoulders than performing administrative activities. Both the woman and [A] have also stated that the woman occasionally does the laundry for [A ] is doing. She can also use the washing machine of [A] in his house for her own laundry and that of her children. [A] stated during the witness examination that the woman may use his washing machine for free. In addition, [A] has stated that the woman, but also her children, have the key to his house and that he has the key to the woman's house. He has also stated that his animals (dogs, birds and wild boars) are also cared for by the woman, which was also stated by the woman during the witness examination, and that the woman cook for each other as [A].

Finally, the court considers relevant that [A] stated during the witness examination that the woman sometimes does the shopping for him.

In view of all of the above, seen in conjunction, the court considers that the husband's statements on this point are that the wife and [A] provide for each other's care financially and that there is at least some entanglement , in the sense that the woman and [A] provide the necessary financial and / or other support to each other sufficiently. In view of this, the woman had an obligation to sufficiently contest these statements. In this connection, the woman has defended that she and [A] each pay their own fixed costs, pay their own groceries and each bear their own costs for the holidays. To that end, the woman has brought bank statements to the court. However, this cannot be deduced from the bank statements provided. In court it is only visible that the woman has withdrawn money from the account or that money has been debited from this account. It cannot be concluded from the bank statements that the woman and [A] are financially completely independent of each other. In addition, the court notes that the withdrawals and pin transactions for groceries per month of the woman vary remarkably, while it can be expected that in the woman's household the expenditure for groceries is spread fairly evenly over the months.

5 Conclusion

In view of all that has been considered above, the court is of the opinion that the wife has not sufficiently rebutted the husband's motivated assertions regarding cohabitation, mutual care and communal housekeeping. In the light of the observations, it would have been in the woman's way to establish facts and circumstances that, if established, would invalidate the husband's conclusion that cohabitation is involved. However, she did not do this sufficiently.

This means that it has been established that the woman started living together with another person as if they were married, as described in Section 1: 160 BW, whereby the obligation of the husband to pay maintenance to the wife has ended.

In the event of termination of the maintenance obligation pursuant to Section 1: 160 of the Dutch Civil Code, the entitlement to spousal maintenance will end on the date that the company was involved. The court does not have the freedom to set a termination date other than that date. In view of the findings in the report of the detective agency, the court considers it sufficiently demonstrated that at the start of the investigation by the detective agency, namely on September 29, 2018, the requirements of Article 1: 160 BW were met. Therefore, in accordance with the husband's request, the court will decide that the husband's maintenance obligation towards the wife has ended as of September 29, 2018.

Repayment obligation

After multiplying his request, the man has requested that the woman increase the partner's alimony that she has wrongly received in the amount of € 44,089, plus the periods that the man has given the woman since 1 September 2019. the Landelijk Bureau Inning has paid maintenance contributions, however, the man must pay back. Now that the husband's maintenance obligation ends on September 29, 2018, the partner's maintenance alimony paid to the woman from that date has been unduly paid. This results in an obligation to repay the woman towards the man. The court sees no reason to include a concrete amount in the operative part, since it is not clear to the court what (exact) amount the man paid unduly after 1 September 2019. The court assumes that parties - with or without the help of their lawyer - will reach an amicable settlement about the repayment of the amount unduly paid by the man to the woman.

Detective agency costs, interview of witnesses and legal costs

The husband has further requested that the woman be ordered to pay the costs of these proceedings, including the costs of the witness examination and the detective agency engaged by the husband. The woman argues against this that the costs of the proceedings must be compensated and that the costs of the witness examination and the detective agency have been made unnecessary. The man had no legitimate interest in having an investigation opened by the detective agency, because the woman has always been open.

The court considers as follows. The legal costs and the costs of the witness examination and the detective agency must be seen as two separate costs. Article 239 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides that in cases in which the parties cannot litigate in person against the costs of the other party, only the salaries and disbursements of the lawyer of that other party will be charged to the unsuccessful party.

In view of the family law nature of the proceedings, the court sees no reason to deviate from the usual rule in such proceedings that the legal costs between the parties are compensated.

With regard to the costs of the witness examination and the detective agency, the mere ground that the woman has been unsuccessful cannot justify an order for these costs. It is up to the husband to argue and prove that his statements (in proceedings) provide sufficient grounds for a claim for compensation for the woman's breach of contract or tort, where it is in the husband's way to provide substantiation. the nature and necessity of the costs.

The court does not believe that the man's claim that the woman deliberately misled and manipulated the man and everyone around the man, solely for the purpose of financial gain.

6 Decision
The court:

1.Amends the contribution of the man in the living costs of the woman agreed between the parties to the settlement agreement of 10 January 2018 and declares in law that the maintenance obligation of the man has ended as of 29 September 2018;

2.Determines that the wife must reimburse the husband's maintenance alimony received from the husband relating to the period from 29 September 2018 to the husband within four weeks of service of this decision, plus statutory interest;

3. declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

4. Compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings between the parties in that each party is to bear its own costs;

5. Rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made in Almelo by mr. W.M.B. Elferink and publicly pronounced on April 3, 2020 in the presence of G.M.Kupup, Registrar.