Pronunciation


COURT OF NORTH HOLLAND
Family and Youth

location Alkmaar

AM

case number / appeal number: C / 15/286531 / FA RK 19-1685 and C / 15/292214 / FA RK 19-4555

Order dated April 1, 2020 regarding the divorce

in the case of:

[the woman] ,

residing in [place],

hereinafter referred to as the woman,

lawyer mr. M.J. van Lingen, established in Alkmaar,

against

[the man] ,

residing in [place],

hereinafter referred to as the man,

lawyer mr. L.S. Summer, established in Alkmaar.

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

- the woman's petition, including attachments, received on 21 March 2019;

- the statement of defense also received the independent request of the man, with annexes, on 5 June 2019;

- the defense against the independent request of the woman, with annexes, received on 5 August 2019;

- the F9 form on the part of the woman, with cover letter supplementing the request and with further exhibits, received on 14 February 2020;

- the F9 form on the part of the man, with cover letter supplementing the independent request and with further productions, received on February 14, 2020;

- the F9 form on the part of the woman, with further production, received on 20 February 2020;

- the F9 form from the man's side, with further production, received on 20 February 2020.

1.2.
The hearing took place on February 25, 2020.

On that occasion the woman appeared, assisted by mr. P.G. Wemmers, acting for mr. M.J. van Lingen, and the man assisted by mr. L.S. Summers.

Mr. Wemmers and mr. Zomers spoke on the basis of a pleaded note.

2 Facts

2.1.
Parties were married to each other on [date] in [place].

2.2.
Separation

2.2.1.
The parties have requested that the divorce be pronounced between them. They have argued that marriage has been permanently disrupted.

The divorce petition will, if based on law, be granted.

2.3.
Continued use of marital home and usage fee

2.3.1.
The man has requested continued use of the house for six months.

The woman has not defended herself against this.

2.3.2.
The court will decide in accordance with the request, now that this request has not been contested and is based on the law.

3 Appeal
2.3.3.
The woman has requested that the husband pay her a usage fee of € 450 per month, starting from the date of submission of the petition. The man has put up a defense against this request, claiming, among other things, that he will pay all the costs of the marital home.

2.3.4.
The court considers as follows. The user charge must be deemed to serve to compensate for the lack of use and enjoyment of the matrimonial home that is equally due to each of the spouses, but is withheld from one of them. The starting point is that reasonableness is decisive for answering both the question of whether a user charge is owed and the question of how high it must be. Now that the man has paid the full mortgage costs and letting the owner, determining a user fee is not reasonable in the opinion of the court. Not even now that these costs are lower than the rental costs of the woman. After all, during the period that the parties are still married, that is to say until the date of registration of the divorce decision in the register of civil status, the parties have an obligation to provide each other with the necessary. The use of the shared home is also covered by this obligation. In view of the fact that the parties agree that the husband will take over the woman's share of the marital property, or that the property will be sold to a third party, and so they will only be together for a short period of time. the court sees no reason to determine a user charge for the period after the marriage between the parties will have ended.

2.4.
Maintenance fee

2.4.1.
After a change at the hearing, the husband requested that a contribution to be paid by the wife in the cost of his living (hereinafter also: partner contribution) be set at € 1,246 gross per month.

2.4.2.
The man states that with the date of registration of the divorce decision his income will be halved, now that this concerns his (early) pension that must be settled from that moment on. In 2018, after thirty years of employment, he got into a labor dispute and then, with the wife's consent, opted to take early retirement. At the hearing, the man explained that he was not aware at the time that in the event of a divorce, this income had to be equalized. The man claims to have been out of education for two years. Given his age, he cannot be expected to look for a paid job again. He therefore needs an additional contribution from the woman.

2.4.3.
The woman put forward a reasoned defense against the husband's request. She states that in 2018 the man unilaterally decided to stop working. At the time, according to the woman, it was already clear that the parties would be divorcing and that the necessary financial changes would take place. Despite the equalization of his pension, the man can provide for his own living if he returns to work two or three days a week, according to the woman.

2.4.4.
The court considers as follows. It is not disputed between the parties that, from the date of registration of this order, the man's pension will be equalized and will be halved, or at least significantly reduced. However, as the court understands, the woman argues that in the face of divorce he may be blamed for the man's choice to take early retirement and that as a lecturer in economics he may suffer the loss of income that he currently suffers from that choice. recover by entering into a new employment. The court does not follow the woman in this position. Under the circumstances outlined by the man, the court considers it justified that in 2018 the man made the choice to take early retirement. To what extent it was already clear to the parties that the divorce was imminent, the court has not become sufficiently clear. However, this does not alter the fact that in the court's opinion the man was free to go less in the long term after a thirty-year contract of employment that ended at the age of sixty, and in the light of the undisputed agreement between the parties. work, take early retirement. In the opinion of the court, there is therefore no question of a culpable fall in income on the part of the man. And although the man might return to work as a lecturer in economics, the court does not consider it reasonable under the circumstances to expect that of him. The man is now almost 62 years old, already two years out of the labor process and in line with the agreement previously made between the parties - to both work less in the long term -

currently retired. In the opinion of the court, the divorce between parties means that the husband's income is now falling. The bond of fate between parties, which arose through marriage and then continues to work, means in the court's opinion that in this case the woman is obliged to pay maintenance to the man.

starting date

2.4.5.
The man has requested to establish a partner's contribution as of the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status.

The woman has taken the position that a possible partner contribution should not be due until the day that the man has taken over the woman's share in the property of the marital home, or that the house will have been sold and delivered to a third party. The housing cost discounted in the need of the husband does not correspond to the low current housing burden of the husband, so that an earlier partner contribution would be unreasonable, according to the wife.

2.4.6.
The court considers that the statements of the woman would be more reason to make a gravy comparison, which, incidentally, was not invoked, than to determine the starting date for a possible partner contribution at a later time. The court therefore sees no reason in the defense of the woman to determine the starting date at a time other than the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status.

4 Reasons of the Decision
2.4.7.
In its assessment, the court rounds amounts to whole euros.

need

2.4.8.
The court sees reason to calculate the need of the man on the basis of the court standard. The court standard is a rule of thumb developed in practice to determine the marriage-related need. This form is in line with the net disposable family income of the parties during the last years of the marriage and is based on a related spending pattern. The court assumes, unless it has been shown otherwise, that the parties always spent their income at the time of the marriage in full to cover the costs of their living. In such a case, the court standard offers a clear and in practice easy to use criterion that leads to a realistic estimate of the need of the debtor. This measure has the additional advantage of not placing ex-spouses in a position in which they feel compelled to engage in needlessly escalating discussions of individual cost items, however small in size (see Amsterdam Court of Appeal, 30 October 2018, ECLI: NL: GHAMS: 2018: 4010).

2.4.9.
From what was brought forward at the hearing, the court concludes that there is no dispute between the parties that the gross annual income of the woman in 2018 was € 25,000 and that of the man was € 53,000. The net disposable income of the parties based on this income at the time of the separation was € 4,701 per month and the marriage-related need of the husband therefore amounts to € 2,821 net per month.

2.4.10.
The man's own income should be deducted from the man's needs. Although the man has not made clear what the exact consequences of the equalization of his pension will be, there is no dispute between the parties that the equalization in any case concerns the pension accrual during the marriage, being 27 years. For this reason, the court will follow the man's assertion that his income will be reduced by 50% from € 36,132 to € 18,066 per year as of the effective date. Taking into account the general tax credit, the NBI of the man then amounts to € 1,169 per month. In view of this, the man needs an additional need of (€ 2,821.00 - € 1,169.00) € 1,652 net per month.

carrying capacity

2.4.11.
The court must then assess whether the woman has sufficient capacity to contribute to the additional need of the man.

2.4.12.
There is no dispute between the parties that the woman's income now amounts to € 31,213 gross per year. This income will be increased by what the woman will receive under the pension equalization. In view of what has been considered above under r.o. 2.4.10. the court assumes an amount of € 18,066 gross per year.

In addition, the court takes into account the general tax credit and the employed person's tax credit. The court also takes into account the social assistance standard for a single person, excluding the housing costs component, and a carrying capacity percentage of 60.

2.4.13.
In addition, the following monthly women's expenses are taken into account:

- the basic rent of € 696 per month, as follows from the lease submitted by the woman;

- the health insurance premium of € 159 per month, as follows from the documentary evidence submitted by the woman, taking into account the amount discounted in the social assistance standard;

- the deductible of € 32 per month.

A study grant for the son of the parties is not taken into account, now that the man has argued without dispute that these costs will be canceled soon.

2.4.14.
From the above it follows that the woman has a carrying capacity of € 1,246 gross per month.

5 Conclusion

2.4.15.
On the basis of the foregoing, the court is of the opinion that the woman should pay a partner's contribution of € 1,246 gross per month to the man with effect from the date of registration of the divorce decision.

2.5.
Distribution

2.5.1.
The woman has requested that the community of goods existing between the parties be distributed in the manner which she proposes.

2.5.2.
The man has requested that the community of goods existing between the parties be distributed in the manner which he proposes.

2.5.3
Parties are married to each other in community of property.

reference date

2.5.4.
The reference date for determining the size of the dissolved matrimonial property community is the date of submission of the petition for divorce, namely 21 March 2019.

2.5.5.
The parties agree that the reference date for the valuation of the dissolved matrimonial property community will be the date of actual division.

2.5.6.
It follows from the documents that the dissolved marriage community at least consists of the following assets and liabilities:

a. the marital home [address], as well as the associated mortgage loan from the [Bank] (with number [number]);

b. the contents;

c. the bank accounts;

d. the policies.

2.5.7.
The court will then deal with the various items. Only the assets are eligible for distribution. It should also be noted that, insofar as the parties have reached agreement on the (manner of) distribution in parts, there is no legal basis for a court decision on the distribution.

ad a. the marital home [address], as well as the associated mortgage loan from the [Bank] (with number [number])

2.5.8.
Prior to the oral hearing, the parties had the value of the house assessed in a binding manner by Makelaardij [Makelaardij]. The value of the house is € 375,000. The man wishes to take over this house and the mortgage loan on it if he can obtain the financing for it.

The man wishes to have the opportunity to obtain suitable financing for six months in order to take over the matrimonial home at a value of € 375,000, in the sense that the financing must enable the man to pay half of the equity to transfer the woman to the date and to have the woman released from joint and several liability. The woman argues that a three-month period should be granted to the man to obtain financing which not only allows him to pay her half of the equity and release her from joint and several liability, but also to pay the right of reimbursement to her.

In the opinion of the court, the man must have obtained adequate financing within three months of the registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status in order to be able to take over the matrimonial home for a value of € 375,000. meaning that the financing must enable the man to pay the part of the equity that accrues to the woman as of the date of transfer and to have her released from joint and several liability. When determining the woman's share in the equity value of the home, the woman's right to reimbursement should be in the community, in accordance with what is set out below under r.o. 2.5.21. is envisaged to be involved so that the equity should therefore be distributed as follows:

- man: [(value of the house - residual mortgage loan - € 40,000)]: 2

- woman: [(value of the house - residual mortgage loan - € 40,000)]: 2 + € 40,000

If the man has not complied with the aforementioned within three months, the marital home will be put up for sale by the parties, whereby the parties will cooperate in providing an assignment to a broker to be designated by mutual agreement to sell the property. house. After the sale of the house, after the mortgage has been repaid, any surplus value is shared between the parties in half, again with due observance of the woman's right to compensation to the community.

ad b. the contents

2.5.10.
There is no dispute between the parties that there are still books, music and photos to be distributed and that they will take care of this distribution by mutual agreement. The man disputes that he has been favored with the distribution of the other household effects with an amount of € 3,000, as stated by the woman. The court also does not follow the woman in this position, since she has insufficiently given that in view of the man's dispute. Therefore, the woman's request to establish compensation for distribu- tion will be rejected below.

ad c. the bank accounts

2.5.11.
Not in dispute between the parties is that the balance of the following in the name of the woman or in both name bank and savings accounts as at the reference date:

- the and / or payment account with the [Bank], with number [number];

- the and / or savings account at the [Bank], with number [number];

- the payment account with the [Bank], with number [number];

- the savings account at the [Bank], with number [number]; and

- the savings account at [Bank], with number [number];

will be allocated to her, with the balance settled on 21 March 2019 in half.

2.5.12
Nor is it in dispute that the balance of the bank and savings accounts registered or registered in both names as at the reference date:

- the and / or payment account with the [Bank], with number [number];

- the savings account at the [Bank], with number [number];

will be allocated to him, after settlement of the balance as of 21 March 2019 in half.

2.5.13.
Thus, the court does not have to make a decision regarding the bank accounts.

ad d. the policies

2.5.14.
There is no dispute between the parties that the dissolved community includes the following three policies:

- the endowment insurance with [insurance], with policy number [number], with a value of € 49,987, which has already been paid out;

- the Risk insurance with [insurance], with policy number [number], without any form of wealth accumulation; and

- the life insurance with [insurance], with policy number [number].

2.5.15.
The [insurance] has been paid out and the funds have been transferred to the [Bank] -

account allocated to the woman. It is not disputed between the parties that the

half of the amount of € 49,987.00 must be paid by the woman to the man. Also

is not in dispute between the parties that the policy on life insurance with

[insurance]. must be surrendered and the surrender value between

them should be divided by halves. With regard to the policies, the

in this way, the court cannot decide.

reimbursement rights

2.5.16.
The woman states that she received an inheritance three times during the marriage, one of which (her mother's) was excluded. Under that inheritance is up to her

- after tax - paid an amount of € 163,786 at the time. This amount has been transferred to the bank account belonging to the community of goods with number [number] and then transferred to another bank account belonging to the community. Referring to the Supreme Court's decision, the woman requests that she have a right to compensation to the community equal to this amount. She argues that the funds are largely spent on the community. There has been a repayment on the mortgage, maintenance has been carried out on the house, a car has been bought and a trip has been paid for, among other things. At the moment, an amount of approximately € 83,500 remains, according to the woman.

2.5.17.
The man has defended the woman's request. On the basis of the Supreme Court's ruling, the woman is not entitled to compensation. The husband states that during the marriage the woman ran the management of the relevant bank account and herself chose to spend these funds. Insofar as the woman claims to have invested in the marital home, she must demonstrate this. So too the other expenses she has made, since it is not possible for him to judge whether the woman has paid private or community debts with the money. According to the man, her one-year sabbatical, which she financed from this capital, concerns at least a private debt that is not for the account and risk of the community. In addition, it is apparent from the information provided by the [Bank] that the balance in the woman's bank account for the period 2014 to 2017 decreased to an amount of € 17,567.58 on 1 January 2017. In 2017, this account was subsequently an amount credited of € 56,677.77. The husband suspects that this is the inheritance of the woman's brother, who is not subject to an exclusion clause and has thus fallen into the community. In the absence of assertions and substantiation, the woman has insufficiently demonstrated that there can be a right of reprise, according to the man.

Moreover, he also acquired an inheritance under exclusion during the marriage, according to the man. He requests, only in case the court is of the opinion that a woman has a right to compensation, to stipulate that he also has a right to compensation. In his case it concerns an amount of € 23,800.

2.5.18.
The court considers as follows. From the documents and what has been put forward at the hearing, the court concludes that in 2011 the woman received an inheritance from her mother under exclusion, amounting to € 163,786 after taxes. This amount has been transferred to a bank account in the name of the woman and then (partly) transferred to a specially opened savings account in her name at the [Bank] ([number]).

2.5.19.
Parties were married (before January 1, 2018) in community of property and the community includes all property of the spouses at the commencement of the community or afterwards obtained, with the exception of “goods for which it is determined by testator's will or gift that they fall outside the community ”, as stipulated in article 1:94 paragraph 2 under a BW. An inheritance obtained under exclusion, as in this case by the woman, is therefore outside the community. That is not in dispute between the parties either.

2.5.20.
The woman argues that the inheritance has largely been devoted to the community, so that she is entitled to a reimbursement right to the community under the provisions of Section 1:96 (4) of the Dutch Civil Code (BW). The woman states that it follows from the judgment of the Supreme Court of 5 April 2019 (ECLI: NL: HR: 2019: 504) that now that there are no or hardly any private debts in the matrimonial community, it follows that the funds are deemed to have been issued to community debts. According to the woman, it is up to the man to declare and prove that she has used her private assets to pay private debts. The court does not follow the woman in her statements. Contrary to what the woman seems to say, the amount of € 163,786 did not become part of the community property through mixing. The inheritance has always remained on the woman's private account (s). Therefore, the woman cannot invoke the presumption of evidence that follows from the provisions of Section 1:94 paragraph 3 (old) of the Dutch Civil Code (now paragraph 5), which includes the presumption that the debts paid out of the community property during the marriage are community debts. In view of the main rule of Article 150 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv), it therefore applies that now that the woman has stated that she has paid community debts with her private assets and the husband has disputed this, the burden of proof rests on the woman. That does not change the fact that private debts in the case of a community of goods, such as that of parties concluded before 1 January 2018, will not easily occur as the woman has stated.

2.5.21.
The woman has not given any insight into the progress of her private assets, the balances in the bank accounts in her name with numbers [number] and [number], or in the way in which she has issued the relevant funds. This is the case insofar as it concerns two repayments on the mortgage loan from the parties, being a repayment of € 23,000 on February 8, 2012 and a repayment of € 17,000 on February 20, 2014. These repayments therefore also apply. that a community debt has been paid with the woman's private assets and that the woman therefore has a right of compensation to the community of € 40,000. Up to this amount, the woman's request can therefore be granted. Since the remainder has not been found, or at least has proved insufficient, of a woman's right to compensation to the community, the request will otherwise be rejected. The court sees no reason to refrain from the executable by stock declaration, as requested by the man, with regard to what is allocated.

2.5.22.
The man also received an inheritance under exclusion during the marriage. When the woman is granted a right of reimbursement, that right also accrues to him, the man has stated. The woman has put up a defense against this. What the man has argued against her right of reimbursement also applies in relation to his. According to the woman, the man has not clarified in which bank account his inheritance was received, whether it flowed into the community, where it was spent and whether she is known in the expenditure.

2.5.23.
The court considers as follows. Although it is not disputed between the parties that the man also received an inheritance under exclusion, the man has neither stated nor demonstrated that this inheritance has become part of the community property through mixing. Therefore, it cannot be assumed that the inheritance was used to pay community debts. Nor has the man claimed or demonstrated that he has paid any community debts with the inheritance. Failing this, in the opinion of the court, the basis for allocating a compensation right to the man is lacking and his (conditional) request will be rejected.

2.5.24.
Finally, the husband has argued that the community has a right of reimbursement against the wife in respect of the inheritance she received from her brother. She did not acquire this inheritance in exclusion in 2015 and has therefore fallen into the community. However, according to the man, the woman understands that the woman received the inheritance of € 50,000 in her private account, which in fact did not benefit the community, according to the man. The court infers from the statements made on behalf of the woman regarding the various compensation rights that the woman defends the statements of the man.

2.5.25.
The court finds that the man has not formulated an actual request that relates to the reimbursement right imposed on behalf of the man. Only at the hearing did the man take a position on this. The court is of the opinion that insofar as the man must be considered to have brought an action in this matter, this must be rejected. To this end, the court considers that the obligation to set and the burden of proof of the alleged compensation right rests on the man. After all, he relies on the legal consequence of that assertion, namely compensation by the woman to the community. In view of the woman's dispute, it would have been in the man's way to put forward facts and circumstances from which it follows that the brother's inheritance did not benefit the community. The man has only expressed a suspicion that this has not been the case. In the opinion of the court, the man has therefore not fulfilled his obligation to compose.

6 Decision
The court:

3.1.
pronounces the divorce between parties, married in Alkmaar on [date];

3.2.
stipulates that the husband has the right vis-à-vis the wife to continue to live in the home [address] and to continue to use the goods belonging to its contents until six months after the registration of the divorce order in the registry of civil status, if he lives in the house at the time of registration;

3.3.
stipulates that the wife must pay the husband as living allowance an advance payment of € 1,246 per month, starting from the date of registration of the divorce order in the registers of civil status;

3.4.
determine the distribution of the matrimonial property community between the parties in accordance with what has been considered and decided in this Decision;

3.5.
declares the decision enforceable, with the exception of the divorce, in stock;

3.6.
rejects the otherwise or more requested.

This decision was made by mr. D.H. Steenmetser-Bakker, judge, and pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar mr. A.M. van der Maten on April 1, 2020.

To the extent that a final decision has been made, an appeal may be lodged with the Amsterdam Court of Appeal through a lawyer. The requesting party and interested parties to appear must file the appeal within three months of the date of the decision. Other interested parties must lodge the appeal within three months after the notification of this decision or after it has become known to them in another way and has been made publicly available in accordance with Article 820 paragraph 2 DCCP.
