Pronunciation


COURT OF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

court case numbers 200.263.284 / 01 (matrimonial property regime) and 200.263.344 / 01 (main residence)

(case numbers District Court North Netherlands 124357 and 124357)

order of 12 March 2020

on

in the case with case number 200.263.284 / 01

[applicant],

residing in [A],

applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the father,

lawyer mr. J.W.F. from Horssen in Leek,

and

[defendant],

residing in [B] (Bahamas),

defendant on appeal,

further to be called: the mother,

lawyer: mr. M. Horsten-van Gemeren in Emmen.

in the case with case number 200.263.344 / 01

[defendant],

residing in [B] (Bahamas),

applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the mother,

lawyer: mr. Horsten-van Gemeren in Emmen,

and

[applicant],

residing in [A],

defendant on appeal,

further to be called: the father,

lawyer mr. J.W.F. van Horssen at Leek.

1 Proceedings

For the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the (interim) orders of the court in the Northern Netherlands, location Assen, of February 20, 2019 and April 24, 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case numbers.

The appeal proceedings
in the case with case number 200.263.284 / 01

2.1
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

- the notice of appeal with production (s), received on July 11, 2019;

- the defense with production (s);

- a journal message from mr. Van Horssen of 5 August 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from Mr. Van Horssen of 9 January 2020 with production (s);

- a journal message from mr. Van Horssen of 13 January 2020 with production (s);

- a journal message from mr. Horsten-van Gemeren of 14 January 2020 with production (s).

in the case with case number 200.263.344 / 01

2.2
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

- the notice of appeal with production (s), received on July 23, 2019;

- the defense with production (s);

- a letter from Mr. Horsten-van Gemeren of August 1, 2019 with production (s);

- a letter from mr. Van Horssen of 9 January 2020 with production (s).

in both cases

2.3
The oral hearing took place on January 20, 2020. Cases with case numbers 200.263.284 / 01 and 200.263.344 / 01 have been handled simultaneously because of their interrelationships. The father has appeared, assisted by his lawyer. The mother has also appeared, assisted by her lawyer and Ms [C], sworn interpreter in the English language (Wbtv number [000]). Mr [D] has appeared on behalf of the Child Protection Board (hereinafter referred to as: the Council). Mr. Van Horssen also spoke on the basis of a pleading note submitted by him.

2 Facts
3.1
The [in] 2017 in [B] (Bahamas) marriage of the parents was dissolved [in] 2019 by registering the divorce (interim) order of

February 20, 2019. The father has Dutch nationality and the mother has Bahamian nationality.

3.2
Parties are the parents of [the minor1] (hereinafter referred to as: [the minor1]) born in the Bahamas [in] 2014 and [the minor2] (hereinafter referred to as [the minor2]) born in the Bahamas [in ] 2019. The parents exercise joint custody of the children.

3.3
The parents moved from the Bahamas to the Netherlands with [the minor1] on December 20, 2017.

in the case with case number 200.263.284 / 01

3.4
The mother has received the court by independent request

November 29, 2018, requested to declare that the parents [in]

The Dutch matrimonial property regime applies to marriage in the Bahamas in 2017. The father put up a defense.

in the case with case number 200.263.344 / 01

3.5
By order of interim relief of September 19, 2018, the court has determined, insofar as relevant here, that [the minor1] is entrusted to the father. From that

day [the minor1] stays with the father. The mother returned to the Bahamas in September 2018.

3.6
The father has requested the court, insofar as it is relevant here, received a petition on September 28, 2018, to determine that the primary residence of [the minor1] will be with him. The mother put up a defense.

3 Scope of Dispute
in both cases

4.1
Disputes between the parties are the applicable law on the matrimonial property regime and the principal residence of [the minor1].

4.2
In the contested order of April 24, 2019, the court, insofar as it is relevant here, enforceable from stock, determined that the primary residence of [the minor1] will be with the father and ordered the parties to divide their community up to a notary; and in the event that the parties do not agree on the choice of a notary within fourteen days after registration of the divorce order, mr. R.T. de Vries, civil-law notary in Emmen, or his observer or successor appointed, and determined that if the mother does not cooperate with the division mr. HM Hemmes-Boer, lawyer in Coevorden, will act as her representative and stipulates that if the father does not cooperate with the distribution mr. CCN Cats, lawyer in Emmen, will act as his representative.

in the case with case number 200.263.284 / 01

4.3
The father appealed against the contested decision with three complaints. These complaints relate to the applicable law on the matrimonial property regime and the division. The father requests the court to annul the contested decision insofar as the court has considered that Dutch law applies to the matrimonial property regime and the parties have been ordered to divide their community before a notary, appointing Mr. R.T. de Vries, notary in Emmen, or his observer or successor, or with the appointment of

mrs. H.H. Hemmes-de Boer or C.C.N. Cats as representatives, and once again the mother's claim “For the right to declare that the parties [in]

Dutch marriage applies to the Bahamas in 2017, and therefore stipulate that the parties must proceed with each other to divide the

community of property in which they are married with the appointment of a

notary and neuter persons ”, costs are legal.

4.4
The mother puts up a defense and requests the court to ratify the contested decision insofar as it pertains to the law applicable to the matrimonial property regime and the division of the matrimonial community, or to take at least such a decision as the court considers correct.

in the case with case number 200.263.344 / 01

4.5
The mother appealed against the contested decision with one complaint. This complaint concerns the principal residence of [the minor1]. The mother requests the court to annul the contested decision insofar as it concerns the determination of the principal residence of [the minor1] and again, with immediate effect, enforceable in stock, to determine that the primary residence of [the minor1] is determined at least with the mother, at least to take such a decision as the Court of Appeal deems appropriate.

4.6
The father puts up a defense and requests the court to present the contested order

to the extent that the court has considered and decides that the principal residence of [the minor1] with the

father is to ratify.

4 Reasons of the Decision

in the case with case number 200.263.284 / 01 (the matrimonial property regime)

5.1
The father has no interest in hearing his first complaint, which means that the court has decided without properly giving the parties the opportunity to explain their views, now that he has presented the dispute to the court in full.

5.2
In support of his second complaint, the father argued that the parties did not establish their first habitual residence within six months after the marriage took place in the territory of the Netherlands. He states that the first marriage domicile, albeit only for a period of less than a month, was in the Bahamas, namely [in] 2017 (marriage date) until December 20, 2017 (departure for the Netherlands). According to the father, the period prior to the marriage must also count when it comes to determining the place of social residence: parties then worked in the Bahamas, they lived there and their daughter [the minor1] was born there. The mother's behavior has furthermore shown that she never intended to remain in the Netherlands, and that stay was also temporary, temporary for the father, pending new work that could be available anywhere in the world.

5.3
The mother denies that she had any intention of staying in the Netherlands when she, with the father and her three children, came to the Netherlands in December 2017. Her job in the Bahamas was suspended, the eldest two daughters were immediately enrolled in a school in the Netherlands and the mother started taking Dutch lessons. The father had a house in the Netherlands and (later) got a job there.

5.4
The parties agree that the Hague Matrimonial Property Convention 1978 applies to their matrimonial property regime. This is also the case in the opinion of the court. The parties also agree that no valid choice of law was made and that they were not of common nationality at the time of the wedding or soon after.

Under these circumstances, the matrimonial property regime is governed by the internal law of the state in whose territory they have their first habitual residence after marriage.

5.5
Based on the documents and what was discussed at the hearing, it is clear to the court that at the time of the marriage ceremony in the Bahamas, the parties already intended to leave the Bahamas and go to the Netherlands. The parties also recognize this, although their views on the nature of the intended stay in the Netherlands differ; the court will return to this later. The fact that the parties did not intend to stay in the Bahamas after their marriage or to return there in the short term is a reason for the court not to attach importance to the premarital period of joint residence in the Bahamas; The Court of Appeal is in line with the so-called Hong Kong judgment of the Supreme Court (HR September 16, 1994, ECLI: NL: HR: 1994: ZC1446, NJ 1995/169, in particular by Th.M. de Boer). Therefore, in the court's judgment, the parties' first marriage domicile is not established in the Bahamas.

5.6
It has also been established that the parties left for the Netherlands within a month of the marriage. This is well within the six-month period generally used in the case-law for assessing where the first marriage domicile was established. Although it is generally required that a first marriage domicile can only be spoken of if the spouses have lived in the country for some time, a short stay in that country may, under certain circumstances, also result in a first marriage domicile, if the spouses intended to to settle there longer but this was not possible due to circumstances.

5.7
The father states that it was not specifically the intention to stay in the Netherlands, but that the parties would stay there temporarily for the time being pending new work to be acquired by the father. That could be anywhere in the world. Staying in the Netherlands was practical for the time being because the father had a house there where parties could live.

The mother states that the intention was to stay in the Netherlands. Not only had she ended her housing in the Bahamas and suspended her work for a long time, but she had also taken her two older children to the Netherlands with the consent of the father and those children were immediately enrolled in a school in the Netherlands and they were actually went to school. The mother also quickly took Dutch lessons.

5.8
The court concludes from the combination of these facts and circumstances that the parties, with the intention of not returning there, left the Bahamas in December 2017 and went to the Netherlands with the intention of staying there, whereby the parties have kept open to leave the Netherlands for another country if the father could get a job in that other country. It has been found that the parties in any case lived together in the Netherlands until April 2018, and that the stay in the Netherlands continued even after the marriage crisis that took place at that time, until the mother left for the Bahamas in September 2018. The father has found work in the Netherlands and he and daughter [the minor1] still live here. In view of these facts, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the parties have established their first marriage domicile in the Netherlands.

5.9
If this could already be judged otherwise, in the sense that the parties have not established a first marriage domicile (neither in the Bahamas nor in the Netherlands), the law of the country with which the matrimonial property regime of the parties is most closely applicable applies. For the assessment of that question, the Court of Appeal considers it important that the parties went to the Netherlands shortly after the marriage with the children and with the termination of their (property) ties with the Bahamas with the aforementioned intention. As a result, there was no (property law) connection with the Bahamas during the marriage. This did exist in the Netherlands, because the parties started to build up their existence here (at least for the time being) and because the largest share of the marital property of the parties is located in the Netherlands, namely the house of (originally) the father in [A]. Also assessed in this way, the Court of Appeal comes to the conclusion that Dutch law applies to the matrimonial property regime of the parties, now that no other legal system is eligible to which the matrimonial property regime of the parties could be most closely associated.

5.10
All this means that the father's second complaint fails. The third complaint is derived directly from the second and follows its fate: it fails. The court's judgment on this point will therefore be confirmed.

in the case with case number 200.263.344 / 01 (principal residence [the minor1])

5.11
The parents have authority together. Pursuant to Article 1: 253a of the Dutch Civil Code, the judge can, at the request of the parents or one of them, establish a regulation regarding the exercise of parental authority. This arrangement may include, among other things, the decision on which parent the child has his primary residence with.

5.12
Like the court, the court is of the opinion that it is in the interest of [the minor1] to have her principal residence with the father. The court agrees with the grounds of the court and makes its considerations, after its own investigation, its own. The court adds the following.

5.13
[the minor1] moved with the parents from the Bahamas to the Netherlands at the age of three and a half. She has been living with her father since September 2018, after a troubled period in which she had several places to stay (including a short stay in a German children's home and women's shelter [E]). The mother has been living in the Bahamas with [the minor2] since birth in early 2019, and her eldest two daughters. After the break-up of the relationship, the relationship between the parents and their mutual communication is seriously disrupted. The large geographical distance between the parents' home countries makes the situation even more complicated. The documents, including a recent report from the Council of 23 December 2019, and what was discussed during the oral hearing, show that the parents disqualify each other as parents, make (serious) accusations about each other and their children's place of residence. not accept another parent, which has created an impossible and sad situation in the possibilities for optimal contact between [the minor1] and [the minor2] themselves and with their non-caring parent. However, the aforementioned council report shows that [the minor1] is a cheerful and resilient girl, that her living situation with the father has now stabilized and that she accepts the situation as it is. The council does note that this may be different when she gets older and will ask more questions and show interest in her origins.

According to the council, both the mother and the father can be considered capable of caring for and raising [the minor1], but it is not desirable to break through her current stable living and living situation with the father.

5.14
The Court of Appeal considers all interests to be of the opinion that it is not in the interest of [the minor1] to make another change in her living situation. [the minor1] has lived with the father in the Netherlands for more than a year and a half (continuously), is attached to him and her living environment and she benefits from the peace and structure that is offered to her there. Breaking this situation would (again) be a major event for her that the court does not consider to be in her interest. [the minor1] is developing well and is having a good time at school, according to the school's development report of 21 November 2019. The council indicated (at the hearing) that it had no concerns about the living situation of [the minor1] the father. The court also has no reason to assume that the parenting situation of the father does not meet the needs of [the minor1]. Therefore, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that what the mother has brought up on this point is insufficient to decide otherwise and to determine the principal residence of [the minor1] with the mother. Insofar as it has been argued that [the minor1] misses the mother (and her half-sisters and [the minor2]) and vice versa if she lives with the father, this does not lead to any other judgment, however understandable. After all, the same applies to the father (and his family) if [the minor1] lives with the mother, as well as for [the minor2] who lives with the mother in the Bahamas. The court concludes that the primary residence of [the minor1] should remain with the father.

5.15
Finally, the Court of Appeal notes that it appears that both parents are very involved with [the minor1] and play an important role in her life. This makes the current situation in which [the minor1], in any case, misses the immediate proximity of one of her parents most of the time, very complex. Precisely because of this difficult situation, it is of great importance for the (identity) development of [the minor1] that the parents invest in their mutual understanding and do their best to stimulate contact with the non-caring parent and to improve it as much as possible. facilitate.

5 Decision
On the basis of what has been considered above, the court will ratify the contested decision, insofar as it is subject to its judgment, with regard to both the applicable matrimonial property regime and the principal residence of [the minor1].

The decision
The court, which has appealed in the cases with case numbers 200.263.284 / 01 and 200.263.344 / 01:

ratifies the order of the District Court of the Northern Netherlands, location Assen, April 24, 2019, insofar as subject to the judgment of the Court of Appeal;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. J.D.S.L. Bosch, I.A. Vermeulen and F. Kleefmann, assisted by Mr. E. Klijn as Registrar, and was delivered in public in the presence of the Registrar on March 12, 2020.