Pronunciation


COURT OF 'S-HERTOGENBOSCH

Family and youth law team

Verdict: March 19, 2020

Case number: 200.270.082 / 01

Case number 1st instance: C / 02/361231 / JE RK 19-1430

in the appeal case of:

[the mother] ,

residing in [place of residence],

appellant,

hereinafter referred to as: the mother,

lawyer: mr. L. van der Steen,

against

Child Protection Council,

Southeast Netherlands region, location [location],

defendant,

hereinafter referred to as: the council.

Stakeholders include:

- Brabant Youth Protection Foundation,

established in [place of business],

hereinafter referred to as: the GI (certified institution),

and

- [the father],

residing in [place of residence],

hereinafter referred to as: the father,

lawyer: mr. J.J. Lukewarm.

This case is about:

[minor 1], born on [date of birth] 2007 in [place of birth] and

[minor 2], born on [date of birth] 2009 in [place of birth].

1 Proceedings

For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) court of 4 September 2019.

The appeal proceedings
2.1.
By appeal with productions, received at the registry on December 3, 2019, the mother requested that the aforementioned decision be annulled and, once again, dismissed the request of the GI to supervise the children.

2.2.
By defense lodged at the Registry on 23 January 2020, the GI requested that the mother's appeal be dismissed and the contested decision upheld.

Simultaneous oral treatment

2.3.1.
On January 16, 2020, the mother also appealed against the order of the court of Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) of October 17, 2019 with case number C / 02/358789 / FA RK 19-2585 about parental authority over the children. and distribution of care and parenting tasks. That appeal has been administered by the Registry under case number 200.272.528 / 01. The oral hearing of that appeal took place simultaneously with the oral hearing of the present case.

The court decides by separate order in that appeal.

2.3.2.
The oral hearing took place on February 18, 2020. On that occasion, the following were heard:

parties, assisted by their lawyers;

the GI, represented by the family manager Mr [the current family manager];

the Council, represented by Ms [Council representative].

2.3.3.
The court gave the minor [minor 1] the opportunity to express her opinion. She took advantage of this by sending the court a letter, which was received at the Registry on January 7, 2020. During the oral hearing, the chairman presented the contents of that letter in a businesslike manner, after which all those present were given the opportunity to respond.

2.4.
The Court also took note of the contents of:

the record of the oral hearing at first instance on 4 September 2019;

the V form of 9 December 2019 with attachments from the mother's lawyer;

the V form of 12 December 2019 with attachments from the mother's lawyer.

2 Facts
3.1.
Parties were married from November 11, 2011 to May 28, 2018. Before this marriage were born:

[minor 1] (hereinafter: [minor 1]), born on [date of birth] 2007 in [place of birth] and

[minor 2] (hereinafter: [minor 2]), born on [date of birth] 2009 in [place of birth].

The children have their primary residence with the mother.

There is joint authority and a division of the care and upbringing tasks whereby the children, in short, stay with the father half the time.

3.2.
The children have been placed under supervision in the past as of August 10, 2017. This custody has been lifted by the court - at the request of the GI - by order of July 23, 2018.

3.3.
In the contested order - declared enforceable - the court, at the request of the council, placed the children under supervision again from September 4, 2019 to September 4, 2020.

3 Appeal
3.4.1.
The mother cannot agree with this decision and she has appealed against it. In summary, she puts forward the following in summary.

Divorce has been very conflicting and the relationship between the parents is still poor. Parent communication has not improved during the previous supervision. The GI did not act energetically at the time. The mother has filed complaints against the GI that have been largely upheld. The custody was terminated by the court because it turned out to be counterproductive. Consultations took place at the Protection Table in early 2019. During that consultation it became clear that the Protection Table saw no added value in a new investigation by the council. The Protection Table has advised that it is important that the parents focus on their own situation, take responsibility for their own situation and let go of the situation with the other parent and that the parents must find a way that the communication between them is as minimal and as neutral as possible. may be possible, only focused on appointments.

There is no progress in the supervision and it cannot be expected that the supervision will have an effect in the short and acceptable term. Since August 2017, there has been interference from the council, the GI and various care agencies in the lives of the mother and children. The supervision is harmful to the children. The children must be kept out of the wind after many years of restlessness, tensions and numerous care providers.

3.4.2.
In short, the mother added, during the oral appeal, that her children are doing well. She thinks the supervision is very bad: you should not disturb something that goes well. In addition, her children do not like talking to more social workers. The mother thinks that parallel parenting has no chance of success. Now it is not possible, because the existing agreements are not being complied with. A lot of aid was deployed during the previous supervision in 2017 and this did not lead to a significant result. Communication between the parents remains poor. The mother does not want to try parallel parenting and if it does not work, then the bulkhead approach. She always cooperates fully and is very flexible, because she wants everything to be arranged properly for her children. She does not interfere with the children when they are with their father, but she does when it comes to their safety. It is true that the children are squeezed. The mother will cooperate with Stichting [stichting] if her children are not harmed.

3.5.
In brief, the Council made the following defense during the oral appeal.

Both parents are involved with the children. Everything stands or falls with the realization that the children are not doing well and the intrinsic motivation of the parents. The serious development threat is still there and supervision is needed. In the conversations with the children, you hear adult affairs.

3.6.1.
In summary, the GI puts forward the following in brief.

The mother lodged a complaint about the state of affairs. A youth care worker was assigned on November 27, 2019. The main concern is that the parents do not communicate constructively with each other and do not keep the children out of the fray. There is insufficient support for parent discussions, while the bulkhead approach is regarded as a last resort. Agreement has been reached with the parents on the use of the parallel parenting module.

At the express request of the mother, the GI has agreed that no individual conversation with the children will take place for the time being.

3.6.2.
In brief, the GI added the following to the oral hearing on appeal.

The court had given the GI the order to discuss the bulkhead approach with the parents. The bulkhead approach is a powerful tool that demands a lot from everyone. Parallel parenting is one step below. The GI felt that the parents agreed on the use of parallel parenting. The GI now rests the bulkheads. Parties are registered with Stichting [stichting] for the parallel parenting module. Foundation [foundation] has the best possibilities to join this case. Part of this module is that a child coach is deployed so that the children can tell their story. The latter is very sensitive to the mother. She thinks this is unnecessary and too burdensome for the children. The child coach component is a permanent part of the parallel parenting module at Stichting [stichting]. The GI cannot estimate whether ultimately more is needed than a parallel parenting module. The parents agree that the children are squeezed and that they are suffering from their struggles. That is the basis for the supervision. If the court ratifies the supervision, the family manager can do his job. The family manager has already taken concrete steps and addressed two concerns of the mother: [minor 2] is now dropped in consultation with the school on Thursday at 8.15 am by the father in the schoolyard and the family manager has confirmed in a conversation with the grandparents that they no longer pick up the children from school. Nevertheless, the mother continues to bring up these topics and asks the family manager, for example, what the sanctions are for the father if he drops [minor 2] in the schoolyard at 8:00.

3.7.
In brief, the father stated the following during the appeal hearing.

The court explicitly mentioned the bulkhead approach in the order, but the father agrees with the family manager's proposal and assessment to use parallel parenting; the father is positive about this. It is in the children's interest that communication improves; both parents need to see that. It doesn't work now. Whether parallel parenting works depends on the commitment of the parents. The father hopes that it will improve communication between the parents. It is important that the supervision remains. Only then can the mother be kept inboard. The children like to come to him. The father has a freer parenting style than the mother. The mother wants to have control over the children, even when the children stay with him. The children suffer from this.

4 Reasons of the Decision

3.8.1.
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 255 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), a judge can place a minor under the supervision of a certified institution when that minor grows up in such a way that he is seriously threatened in his development, and:

the care that is necessary in connection with the removal of the threat for the minor or for his parents or the parent who exercises authority is not or insufficiently accepted by these, and b.

the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise the authority within a term that is acceptable, in view of the person and the development of the minor, assume the responsibility for the care and upbringing, referred to in Article 1: 247 paragraph 2 BW, in be able to wear.

3.8.2.
During the oral appeal, the mother stated that the children are in a tight spot between the parents, but she sees no developmental threat that justifies the supervision. The court does not follow the mother in this position. The file shows that both children are emotionally burdened by the long and intense ex-partner struggle between their parents. The Court of Appeal sees many points of reference for this in the council report in particular. For example, [minor 1] has told the council that she thinks her father doesn't love her. The court finds this very disturbing, especially now that the court sees that both parents - including the father - love the children very much and want the best for them.

3.8.3.
Both parents are vested with custody of the children and this requires that they communicate with each other without burdening the children. The constant fierce battle between the parents shows that they are not able to do this themselves. Neither voluntary nor forced relief has so far led to the parents burying the hatchet. The professional use of the GI within the framework of the supervision is currently a necessary means to remove the developmental threat from the children, or to limit it as much as possible. The Court of Appeal considers it important that the family manager will continue to focus on parallel parenting and designing the minimum necessary communication between the parents in the coming period. The court currently considers this route the most appropriate route. Although the court has explicitly mentioned the bulkhead approach, the court (also) fully supports the parallel parenting process after the family manager has shared his thinking with the court. The idea behind parallel parenting is that both parents treat each other respectfully without interfering. They should focus on their children and their own relationship with them, not their relationship to each other or the parenthood of the other, where both parents learn to trust each other and the children are no longer burdened with underlying tensions. The parents are not yet able to do this and the court is not confident that the parents can turn the tide in the voluntary context. In the past that was (still) different. In mid-2018, the GI withdrew the request for an extension of the first supervision order, partly because both parents turned out to be willing to voluntarily go to Stichting [stichting] to work on their parenting problems. The court is currently not convinced of the mother's willingness to participate unconditionally in the parallel parenting process. After all, she has unilaterally attached the condition that the children should not talk to the child coach before the process has started. Furthermore, it is a matter of great concern that the mother has repeatedly shown that she does not accept the GI's assistance and authority and that she is following her own course. Even now: she still prevents the family manager from coming into direct contact with the children. However, the effectiveness of a supervision order is highly dependent on the cooperation of the parents (in this case certainly also the mother) with the assistance deemed necessary by the GI. The court points out to the mother that a custody order is not optional and that both parents are obliged to follow the instructions of the GI. The court therefore informs the mother that she must change her attitude so that the necessary assistance can be deployed effectively. The difficult course should not - again - lead to the termination of the supervision. Of course, the father is also required to make an effort to ensure that the supervision order runs smoothly. In short: to ensure that both parents (in particular the mother) continue to accept the assistance - in particular the assistance of Stichting [stichting] that is aimed at parallel parenting - the Court of Appeal considers the supervision to be necessary and justified in the interest of the children.

3.8.4.
It is positive that both parents have expressed their willingness to participate in the parallel parenting process and that they have now been registered with Stichting [stichting]. The court expects that the parents take this opportunity with both hands and, in the interest of [minor 1] and [minor 2], accept the assistance and also open themselves up to create a situation in which the children feel safe and pleasant with the mother and the father. Finally, the court considers that the children (and the parents) have already benefited in a short time from the efforts of the current family manager: Mr [the current family manager]. As has been shown during the oral appeal, the family manager has tackled two of the mother's concerns energetically in a short time. The court hopes that Mr. [the current family manager] can continue to work in a constructive manner with the parents and that it does not have to come to the point that a child protection measure with a more extensive character must be taken with regard to the children.

3.8.5.
The court will ratify the contested decision.

5 Decision
The Council:

ratifies the contested decision;

requests the registrar to transmit a copy of this decision to the registrar of the court of Oost-Brabant, division of civil law, team of family and youth law for the attention of the central authority register, in accordance with the provisions of the Custody Registers Decree;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. J.F.A.M. Graafland-Verhaegen, C.D.M. Lamers and H. van Winkel and was pronounced in public in the presence of Mr. D. van der Horst, registrar on March 19, 2020.
