Pronunciation


COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Civil and Tax Law Department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.259.361 / 01

Case number court: C / 15/226704 / FA RK 15-3029

Multiple Chamber Order of 31 March 2020 on

[the man] ,

residing in [residence], India,

applicant in principal appeal,

defendant in cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer: mr. E.J. Kim-Meijer in The Hague,

and

[the woman] ,

residing at a secret address in the Netherlands,

defendant in principal appeal,

applicant in cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer: mr. C.C.B. Boshouwers in Amsterdam.

Furthermore, the following were also interested:

- the minor [child 1], born on [date of birth] 2014 in [place of birth].

In his advisory role, the procedure includes:

the Child Protection Board, established in The Hague,

location: The Hague,

hereinafter referred to as: the council.

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of Noord-Holland, location Haarlem (hereinafter: the court), of 14 February 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1
The man appealed on 13 May 2019 to the aforementioned decision of 14 February 2019.

2.2
On 27 June 2019, the woman filed a statement of defense also containing an incidental appeal.

2.3
The man filed a defense in cross-appeal on August 12, 2019.

2.4
The court also received the following documents:

- a copy of the minutes of the oral proceedings at the court in cases with case numbers C / 15/226704 / FA RK 15-3029, C / 15/258086 / FA RK 17-2356 and C / 15/275913 / FA RK 18-3682, held on July 4, 2018 and July 25, 2018, received from the man's side on June 3, 2019;

- a copy of the minutes of the oral hearing in the court of the case with case number C / 15/275913 / FA RK 18-3682, held on November 27, 2018, received by the man on June 3, 2019;

- a copy of the minutes of the oral hearing of the cases with case numbers C / 15/226704 / FA RK 15-3029 and C / 15/225528 / FA RK 14-2452, held on February 24, 2016, arrived from the side of the man on June 27, 2019;

- a copy of the birth certificate of [child 1] and an extract from the register of custody, received from the man on 27 June 2019;

- a journal message from the woman's side of January 16, 2020 with attachments, received on January 17, 2020;

- a journal message from the man of January 16, 2020 with attachments, received on January 17, 2020;

- a journal message from the woman's side of 17 January 2020 with an attachment, received on 20 January 2020;

- a journal message from the man of January 18, 2020 with attachments, received on January 20, 2020;

- a journal message from the woman's side of 24 January 2020 with an attachment, received on 27 January 2020;

- a journal message from the man of January 26, 2020 with attachments, received on January 27, 2020.

2.5
The oral hearing took place on January 30, 2020, with the consent of the parties simultaneously with the oral hearing in the case with case number 200.259.370 / 01. Published are:

- the man's lawyer;

- the woman, assisted by her lawyer;

- the Council, represented by Ms [X], accompanied by a colleague.

The man, although properly summoned, did not appear.

The lawyers of the parties submitted arguments at the hearing.

2 Facts
In principal and incidental appeal

3.1
The parties were married on 29 April 2011 in Mumbai, India. From their marriage on [date of birth] 2014, [child 1] (hereinafter referred to as: [child 1]) was born in [place of birth]. The woman has a daughter from a previous marriage, namely [child 2] (hereinafter referred to as: [child 2]), born on [date of birth] 2008 in [place of birth].

3.2
The woman has Dutch and Pakistani nationality. The man has Indian nationality. [child 1] has - in any case - Dutch nationality.

3.3
Until December 7, 2014, the parties lived together with [child 2] and [child 1] in [place], India. On the aforementioned date, the woman traveled to the Netherlands with [child 2] and [child 1].

3.4
[child 1] lived with the woman and [child 2] in the Netherlands until September 29, 2016. On that day she was taken from her grandmother's house in Amsterdam and brought to India. Since then she has been with the man in India. The woman has reported to the husband the kidnapping of [child 1] or the removal of [child 1] from her authority.

Overview of procedures between parties in the Netherlands

3.5
The following proceedings have been instituted between the parties - insofar as they are currently relevant - in the Netherlands.

3.5.1
On April 23, 2015, the woman filed a petition for interim relief as referred to in Article 821 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv) with the court.

By order of March 1, 2016, the court entrusted the woman as a provisional measure [child 1] for the duration of the divorce proceedings (case number C / 15/225528 / FA RK 15-2452).

3.5.2
In this case, the woman filed a petition for divorce with ancillary provisions with the court on 7 May 2015 (insofar as it is currently relevant: concerning the single-headed custody of [child 1], in the alternative determining her principal residence with the woman).

By order of April 6, 2016, the court, in response to a jurisdictional defense raised by the man, ruled that she has jurisdiction with regard to divorce and ancillary provisions, of which an appeal was opened on May 25, 2016.

On appeal, the Amsterdam Court of Appeal annulled the District Court's decision of April 6, 2016 on 14 March 2017 and found the Dutch court to have no jurisdiction with regard to both the divorce and the aforementioned requested ancillary provisions with regard to parental responsibility.

In cassation, the Supreme Court upheld the decision of the court of 14 March 2017 on 12 January 2018 insofar as it concerns the lack of jurisdiction with regard to divorce. The decision was annulled in so far as it concerns the disqualification of the woman's request to entrust her with the unilateral authority over [child 1], in the alternative to determine her primary residence with the woman. The Supreme Court has determined that the Dutch court has jurisdiction to hear that request. The case has been referred back to court on this point.

In the contested decision of 14 February 2019, the court (among other things) detained the decisions regarding these ancillary provisions pro forma.

3.5.3
On May 8, 2015, the man filed a petition for the return of [child 1] to India to the court of The Hague under the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction of October 25, 1980, Trb. 1987, 139 (hereinafter: HKOV).

The man's request was rejected by order of that court of 6 July 2015. This decision was ratified by the Hague Court of Appeal on August 19, 2015.

3.5.4
On 4 November 2016, the woman filed a request for the return of [child 1] to the Netherlands with the Central Authority (registered under IKO no. 160098).

3.5.5
On 19 April 2017, the woman filed a petition with the court seeking to establish - in short - the primary residence of [child 1] with her and, on various grounds, ending the authority of the husband.

By decision of the court of March 9, 2018 (case number C / 15/258086 / FA RK 17-2356), the decision was arrested on these requests and an investigation was ordered. The council issued a report and advice on 2 July 2018.

By decision of February 14, 2019, the court dismissed the woman's requests, to the extent admissible. No appeal has been lodged against this decision.

3.5.6
On 11 September 2017, the woman also requested the Court of The Hague to order the immediate return of [child 1] to the Netherlands under the HKOV.

By order of December 22, 2017, the court ordered the immediate return of [child 1] to the Netherlands. The man appealed against this decision to the Hague Court of Appeal.

On 15 February 2018, the Court of Appeal of The Hague declared the Dutch court unauthorized and annulled the court's decision.

In cassation, the Supreme Court annulled the latter court order on 5 July 2019 and referred the proceedings back to that court for further consideration and decision.

By order (after the referral) of the Hague Court of Appeal of 28 August 2019, the decision of the District Court of The Hague of 22 December 2017 was ratified insofar as the immediate return of [Child 1] to the Netherlands was ordered, as well as with regard to the other decisions taken therein and the man is ordered to pay the woman a penalty of € 10,000 per day that he does not comply with the order, up to a maximum of € 1,000,000.

3.5.7
On July 2, 2018, the council filed a request to end the authority of the man. By order of February 14, 2019, the court terminated the husband's authority over [child 1] on this request (case number C / 15/275913 / FA RK 18-3682). The man has appealed against this decision. In that case, the court will rule today.

Overview of procedures in India

3.6
As far as currently relevant, the following legal proceedings have been instituted between the parties in India.

3.6.1
The man filed for divorce with the Family Court Mumbai at Bandry, India (hereinafter referred to as: Family Court Mumbai) on May 5, 2015. On the same day, he also instituted a separate custody procedure, in which, among other things, it was requested to make an interim provision.

On July 18, 2017, the Mumbai Family Court, as far as relevant, has decided on the interim application submitted by the man:

“1. The application is allowed.

2. The interim custody of [kind 1] shall remain with the petitioner hof: de man) till disposal of petition.

3. The respondent, her agents, servant and / or anyone claiming through her are hereby restrained from removing the minor child [kind 1] from the physical custody of the petitioner without due process of law. ”

Neither divorce proceedings nor custody proceedings have so far been finalized.

3.6.2
On 11 October 2017, the woman filed an “application” with the High Court of Judicature at Bombay (hereinafter referred to as: High Court), which included:

“(…)

b). that the Honorable court be pleased to direct the petitioner herein to return custody of

the minor child [child 1] to the respondent / mother ”.

The High Court referred the case back to the Family Court Mumbai on January 11, 2018, stipulating that the Family Court must decide on “prayer clause b” within two weeks.

3.6.3
On January 29, 2018 (insofar as relevant here), the Mumbai Family Court issued the following “order”:

Prayer clause (b) is allowed.

The petitioner (hof: de man) is directed to produce the minor child [kind 1] on the next date i.e. 27.3.2018.

The petitioner is directed to return the minor child [child 1] to the respondent (court: the woman) on the next date i.e. 27.3.2018.

The respondent is directed to remain present before this Court on the next date i.e. 27.3.2018 to take custody of child [child 1]. (…) ”

3.6.4
The High Court decided on April 13, 2018 the following on the man's appeal against the “order” of the Family Court Mumbai January 29, 2018:

“(…) In light of the facts and circumstances and discussions above, the impugned order dated 29th January 2018 passed by the Family Court, cannot be sustained, and is liable to be set aside and is accordingly set aside.

Though by the impugned order the mother was directed to remain present in the Court on 27th March 2018 to take over custody of child [kind 1], the learned counsel for the respondent wife had informed, during the course of hearing of the petition, that the mother is not in a position to remain present on the said date and the date is required to be postponed.

However, considering the expediency of the situation, the Family Court, Bandra is directed to decide the custody petition filed by the petitioner husband and also deal with the objection raised by the wife in respect of the jurisdiction of the Family Court to deal with the custody petition and the proceedings are directed to be completed within a period of one year from today. ”

3.6.5
The woman appealed the High Court decision of April 13, 2018. On August 20, 2018, the Supreme Court of India considered the following:

“We direct the Family Court that the matter shall be tried and disposed of uninfluenced by any of the observations and findings in the impugned judgment. We also direct the parties to cooperate with the disposal of the matter, as directed by the High Court. ”

In addition, the man has been ordered to allow "Skype access" between the woman and [child 1]:

"The petitioner and her family members are permitted to have Skype access thrice a week for a maximum duration of 35 minutes between 7.00 p.m. to 8.00 p.m. on every Monday, Wednesday and Saturday."

Also on September 28, 2018, October 9, 2018, October 30, 2018, and May 3, 2019, the Supreme Court of India ordered the man to allow Skype contact between the woman and [child 1].

3.6.6
On April 12, 2019, the High Court upheld the dismissal of the husband's request of July 18, 2018 for the divorce and custody proceedings to be brought together by the Mumbai Family Court.

3.6.7
The woman filed a request regarding the Skype contact between her and [child 1] with the Family Court Mumbai on May 27, 2019. On June 26, 2019, the Mumbai Family Court issued a decision containing:

“The petitioner (hof: de man) is directed to comply with the order of Hon'ble Supreme Court to bring the child for access to the children complex as per the order of Hon'ble Supreme Court and ensure that physical and meaningful access is given to the mother. ”

3.6.8
On 23 July 2019, the Mumbai Family Court ruled on the woman's request regarding the (in) jurisdiction of the Indian court:

“The respondent has challenged the territorial jurisdiction of this Court. (…) The present matter is expedited and time bound. Again it will take time to decide the issue of jurisdiction. So, it will be just and proper to decide the present application along with the main petition.

Scope of Dispute
4.1
The contested decision reserved the decisions on the ancillary services requested by the woman on 7 May 2015 concerning the custody and principal residence of [child 1].

It is clear from the grounds of the order (ground 3.5.3) that the court held the case until the court's decision of 14 February 2019 (in the case referred to under 3.5.7 above with number C / 15/275913 / FA RK 18-3682 between the council and the husband) with regard to the termination of the authority of the husband over [child 1] has become res judicata or will be decided in India on the divorce and on the authority and the principal residence in an irrevocable court decision, which is recognized in the Netherlands.

In addition, at the woman's request, it was declared legal that the provisional relief measures established by order of 1 March 2016 remain in force as long as no final divorce decision has been rendered in India or the Netherlands.

in principal appeal

4.2
The man requests, as the court understands, to annul the contested order and to do justice again, executable from stock:

a. declare the woman inadmissible in her requests to entrust her with authority only over [child 1] and to determine the primary residence of [child 1] with her;

b. to determine that the case will not be brought before the court pro forma with regard to decisions on custody and principal residence and to determine that the woman's inadmissibility is brought to an end; in the alternative, if the woman is declared inadmissible, order that the case be held until the Mumbai Family Court decides on divorce and custody of [child 1];

c. dismiss the request for justice from the woman that the provisional relief measures established by order of 1 March 2016 remain in force as long as no final Dutch or Indian divorce decision has been rendered, and that the 1 March 1 order 2016 interim provisions have lost their force;

d. order the woman to pay the costs of the proceedings, consisting of the court registry fees and the lawyer's fees, namely an amount of € 5,000 excluding VAT.

4.3
The woman requests that the man declare inadmissible or at least reject his requests.

in occasional appeal

4.4
The woman requests that by order, as much as possible in stock and (as the court understands :) with annulment of the contested decision to the extent, primarily determine that the court will decide on the additional requests made with regard to custody and the principal residence, without further detention pending (irrevocable) divorce decisions as well as the authority and principal residence of [child 1] in India, or pending a Dutch divorce decision.

In the alternative, it requests that the court decide on the additional requests made by it with regard to the custody and principal residence of [child 1], subject to detention pending a Dutch divorce decision.

The cross-appeal does not appeal against the court's decision to detain decisions on custody and principal residence until the court's decision of February 14, 2019 concerning the cessation of the man's authority over [child 1] (case number C / 15/275913 / FA RK 18-3682) has become final.

4.5
The husband requests that the woman be declared inadmissible, or at least that she rejects.

3 Reasons of the Decision
Admissibility of the principal and cross-appeal

5.1
First of all, the admissibility of the appeals brought by both parties must be assessed.

5.2
The man has taken the position that he does not recognize the jurisdiction of the court, the council and this court. Contrary to what the woman has argued, this does not lead to the man's inadmissibility. It appears from the grievances formulated by the man that he has not only appealed to contest the jurisdiction of the Dutch court and he also pleads defense. The court will therefore receive the man on appeal. The fact that the man does not wish to recognize the competence of the Dutch authorities does not alter this.

5.3
The woman further argues that the husband should be declared inadmissible in his principal appeal in so far as this relates to the decision of the court to arrest decisions concerning the authority and principal residence of [child 1]. To this end, it argues - in summary - that this decision concerns an interim decision of which no appeal can be lodged under Article 358, paragraph 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv).

The man put up a defense.

5.4
The court considers as follows.

The contested decision can be classified as a partial decision, since its operative part contains partly interim decisions and partly a final decision. According to settled case law, an appeal against interim decisions in a partial order is admissible if in that appeal also complaints are directed against the final decision part (HR 9 September 2011, ECLI: NL: HR: 2011: BQ2306).

The man has not only brought complaints against the court's decision to suspend the treatment of the ancillary services requested by the woman, but also against the court's statement that the interim measures established by order of 1 March 2016 have effect are retained as long as no res judicata has been made in the Netherlands or India. This decision puts an end to this part of the dispute. Thus the man has brought complaints against both the part of the decision which qualifies as a final decision and the part that qualifies as an interim decision and he is admissible in the entire appeal brought by him.

Contrary to what the man has argued, this means that the woman is also admissible in the cross-appeal brought by her against the decision of the court to detain decisions on custody and principal residence.

in principal appeal

Establishment of the facts

5.5
In his first complaint, the man objects to the finding of the facts in the contested decision, in the sense that the statement of the facts is incomplete. This complaint fails for lack of interest. It has not been alleged that one or more of the facts established by the court under paragraph 2 of the contested order are incorrect. The appeal also serves to repair possible omissions from the first instance. On appeal, the court will base its decision on the established facts that are relevant to this.

Band divorce and ancillary provisions

5.6
The man argues with his second complaint that although the Supreme Court has ruled that the Dutch court has international competence to take cognizance of the request to make ancillary provisions, this does not necessarily mean that the Dutch court also has national jurisdiction. Now that no divorce petition is pending in the Netherlands, it is no longer possible to judge the requested additional provisions. The request and the possibility of making additional provisions have lapsed, so that the woman should have been declared inadmissible in her request. The fact that divorce proceedings are pending in India does not change this. Side requests must be made in the country where the main proceedings are pending, which is in India, the man said.

The woman put up a defense.

5.7
The court rules as follows. In its decision of 12 January 2018 between the parties in these proceedings, the Supreme Court ruled that the woman's request to entrust her with the single-headed authority over [child 1] or for the primary residence of [child 1] in the woman to determine, the 'parental responsibility' for [child 1] concerns as referred to in Article 2, preamble and under 7, in connection with Article 8 paragraph 1 Regulation (EC) no. 2201/2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and on matters of parental responsibility (hereinafter: Brussels II-bis Regulation), so that this request falls within the material scope of this Regulation. Now that [child 1], according to the Supreme Court, had at the time of submitting the request her habitual residence as referred to in Article 8 paragraph 1 of the Brussels II-bis Regulation in the Netherlands, the request related to [child 1] within the formal scope of the Regulation and the Dutch court has jurisdiction under Article 8 paragraph 1 of the Brussels II-bis Regulation to hear the request.

Furthermore, the Supreme Court has ruled that this power does not preclude the circumstance that divorce proceedings between women and men are not or cannot be brought before a Dutch court, nor that they preclude the system of art. 827 paragraph 1, preamble and under c Rv in connection with art. 1: 251a paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW) is based on the principle that provisions concerning, among other things, “the authority over, the division of the care and upbringing tasks over, the determination of the principal residence or the association with, the information and Consultation on (…) minor children of the spouses ”as an 'ancillary provision' may be made by the judge delivering the divorce. The Dutch judge who, pursuant to art. 8 paragraph 1 Brussels II-bis Regulation which is competent to hear a request regarding parental responsibility for a child, may continue his decision on that request pending the outcome of a pending or pending before a foreign court divorce proceedings, or attach conditions to his decision that are related to a divorce to be pronounced abroad, according to the Supreme Court.

In view of this decision of the Supreme Court, contrary to what the man apparently intended to argue with his second complaint, it is established between the parties that [child 1] is habitually resident in the Netherlands. The fact that she has been with the man in India for almost two years does not change this, now that the jurisdiction of the Dutch court in a case governed by the Brussels II bis Regulation is determined at the time of submission of the preliminary application (the so-called principle of 'perpetuatio fori').

5.9
The court understands - with the court - the considerations of the Supreme Court, so that the connection between the divorce and the ancillary provisions required by Article 827 DCCP does not mean that they must be brought before the same (national) court, but that the requirement of consistency is also met if divorce proceedings are pending abroad, the outcome of which can be recognized in the Netherlands. As will be considered below, this is the case in this case, so that the Dutch court can take cognizance of the additional requests regarding the custody and principal residence of [child 1] and the woman is receptive to this.

Recognition of Indian judicial decisions

5.10
In his third complaint, the man subsequently argues that due account should be taken of judicial decisions given in India, which he apparently means that, for this reason too, the Dutch court must declare that it has no jurisdiction, on the basis of the second sentence of Article 12 DCCP. He refers to the decision of a Sharia Court of 19 January 2016 and the decision of the Mumbai Family Court of 18 July 2017, the latter decision - according to the man - was confirmed by the aforementioned judgment of the High Court of 13 April 2018.

5.11
The court rejects this argument. As the man rightly argues, no treaty or other instrument applies between the Netherlands and India that provides rules for the recognition of each other's court rulings, so that the question of the recognition in the Netherlands of decisions of the Indian judge must be assessed on the basis of the criteria from settled case law of the Supreme Court, last confirmed in HR 26 June 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 2838 (Gazprom). The basic principle is that a foreign court decision in the Netherlands is recognized in principle if (i) the jurisdiction of the judge who gave the decision is based on a ground of jurisdiction generally acceptable by international standards, (ii) the foreign decision has been reached in legal proceedings that comply with the requirements of a proper and sufficiently substantiated procedure, (iii) the recognition of the foreign decision is not contrary to Dutch public policy, and (iv) the foreign decision is not incompatible with an decision of the Dutch court given to the same parties, or with a previous decision of a foreign court that was given between the same parties in a dispute that concerns the same subject and is based on the same cause, provided that the earlier decision is open to recognition in the Netherlands.

Regarding the decision of the Sharia Court of January 19, 2016, the man has not demonstrated, in the light of the woman's defense, that this body can be classified as a judge of a foreign state. A strong indication to the contrary is precisely the result of an email from mr. M.C. van Kampen, public prosecutor in Amsterdam, to the woman's lawyer on 19 April 2017, with a copy of an official police report of 13 October 2016 attached. In that official report, the reporter relates a conversation with a consular officer of the Indian embassy in The Hague, which shows that a Sharia judge in India is not an official judge. For this reason alone, that decision cannot qualify for recognition in the Netherlands, notwithstanding that in the proceedings that led to that decision there has been no proper administration of justice now that the woman has not been given the opportunity to be heard in it. .

With regard to the decisions of the Mumbai Family Court of 18 July 2017 and the High Court of 13 April 2018, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that these are not eligible for recognition in the Netherlands either. It is established that these statements were made after the unauthorized transfer of [child 1] to India. The aforementioned order of the Hague Court of Appeal of 28 August 2019 confirmed the decision of the District Court of The Hague of 22 December 2017, in which the immediate return of [child 1] to the Netherlands was ordered. Both Indian decisions mentioned, on the other hand, assume that [child 1] will stay with the man in India, at least for the time being. They are therefore incompatible with the order of the Hague Court of Appeal. Since this concerns an unauthorized transfer of a minor, the recognition of those decisions is also contrary to Dutch public policy.

The court has rightly not taken Indian decisions into account and neither will the court.
Litis Penis

5.12
In his third complaint, the man also claims that proceedings are still ongoing in India regarding the authority over [child 1]. That procedure was instituted on 5 May 2015, prior to any substantive proceedings in the Netherlands regarding parental responsibility over [child 1]. Pursuant to Article 12 DCCP, the Noord-Holland court should therefore have stayed the case pending the outcome of the Indian procedure. In this connection, the man points out that in its decision of 5 February 2019, the Court of Appeal of The Hague considered that it is established that it is not the Dutch, but the Indian court that has jurisdiction with regard to the divorce of parties and that the Indian judge , being the first court seised, will assess whether he is also competent to hear the requests for custody. The man also points out that in the latter order the court of appeal of The Hague considered that the center of gravity of legal proceedings concerning authority is in India. The woman has opposed arrest on this ground for handling the case.

5.13
The court considers as follows. If a case has been brought before a judge of a foreign state and a decision can be given therein that is open to recognition and, where applicable, for enforcement in the Netherlands, the Dutch court that subsequently brought a case between the same parties on the same subject has been introduced, pursuant to the first sentence of Article 12 DCCP, to continue the hearing of the case until it has been decided by the first-mentioned judge. This is a discretion of the judge. The court did not want to make use of this power and the question now arises whether this is justified and whether the court should still do so.

5.14
As previously considered, the question of whether a judgment can be recognized in the Netherlands in pending Indian proceedings must be answered on the basis of the criteria set out in the Gazprom judgment. The outcome of the procedures in India has not yet been determined, but serious consideration should be given to the possibility that an Indian final judgment on parental responsibility for [child 1] in the Netherlands may not be recognized. Although the Indian judge has not yet given a decision on whether he has jurisdiction, but now that there is an unauthorized transfer of [child 1] to India, the court considers on the basis of the information currently available that the Indian judge has his jurisdiction cannot rely on grounds generally acceptable by international standards, except in the case of interim measures. In the event of unauthorized transfer, the internationally accepted standard is that the courts of the State where the child had his habitual residence immediately before that remain competent (see, for example, Article 10 Brussels II-bis and Article 7 Hague Child Protection Convention 1996). In addition, there is also a reasonable chance that a final decision by the Indian court can also not be recognized due to incompatibility with the decision of the court of the Hague of 5 February 2019 or contrary to Dutch public policy, all for reasons as stated under 5.11 above. . Moreover, it is not certain when it will come to a final judgment in India. According to the man, that statement can be expected in the near future. He bases this on statements from his Indian lawyer. The woman contested that claim, citing documents from her Indian lawyer. According to her, statements from those involved have yet to be taken in India and it is uncertain when that will happen. The Court of Appeal considers that in this state of affairs it cannot be assumed that this ruling will follow within the foreseeable future.

It is concluded that the hearing of the case will not be held pending further Indian court decisions regarding [child 1].

5.15
Finally, the court ignores the man's assertion that the 'center of gravity' of the procedures is in India, as the court of appeal in The Hague considered in its order of 5 February 2019, which was later overturned by the Supreme Court. to the question of where the 'center of gravity' of the procedures lies, the court considers that this center of gravity should not be in India, but in the Netherlands, now that [child 1] has been unlawfully transferred to India. The grievances two and three fail.

Provisional provisions

5.16
The man's fourth complaint is directed against the court's statement that the interim measures laid down by court order of 1 March 2016 remain in force as long as no res judicata has been rendered in India or in The Netherlands. In short, the man argues that the provisional measures have lost their strength because the divorce proceedings brought by the woman have ended in the Netherlands due to the lack of jurisdiction of the Dutch court. According to the husband, the procedure brought by the woman will not lead to the registration of a divorce order in the registers of civil status. The man therefore requests the court to determine that the interim provisions established by order of 1 March 2016 have lost their force

The woman defends.

5.17
The court considers as follows.

5.18
It follows from the order of the Supreme Court of 12 January 2018 that the Dutch court has no jurisdiction over the woman's request for divorce, but with regard to the requested additional provisions with regard to parental responsibility over [child 1]. This means that at the time of submitting the request for interim relief on April 23, 2015, the court had jurisdiction over [child 1] to make those arrangements.

5.19
In accordance with the second sentence of Article 821 (1) DCCP, a request for a provisional injunction may be lodged until such time as such a provision, if given, loses its effect under Article 826 DCCP. Article 826, paragraph 1 DCCP provides, insofar as it is relevant here, that provisional measures lose their force as soon as the possibility of registering the divorce decision in the registers of civil status lapses. Article 826, paragraph 2 of the Rv also provides that provisional measures shall cease to have effect as soon as a decision rejecting a divorce petition becomes final. Finally, Article 821, paragraph 4 of the Rv stipulates that provisional provisions lose their effect if a request for divorce is not made within four weeks of the date of the decision.

5.20
The court understands the man's assertion that, due to the lack of jurisdiction of the Dutch court with regard to divorce, there will be no divorce order that can be entered in the registers of civil status and that for that reason the Dutch judge could not make a valid provisional injunction, at least that those provisions have lost their effect as a result of the Supreme Court's decision of 12 January 2018.

The court does not share that view. It follows from the system of Articles 821 and 826 DCCP that the interim provisions, the divorce petition and the divorce decision are linked. Internationally, however, it has been accepted that national courts should, in principle, be able to bring interim relief in the best interests of the child, including parental responsibility if the child in question has his habitual residence in his country, and even if this is not the case but that minor is in that country. Indications for this can be taken, inter alia, from Article 20 paragraph 1 Brussels II-bis, Article 11 HKV 1996 and Article 9 Hague Child Protection Convention 1961 (Trb. 1968, 101). Seen in this light, the requirements of Article 821 and Article 826 DCCP must be interpreted in such a way that the divorce application can also be made abroad, if the foreign dissolution of the marriage can ultimately be recognized in the Netherlands. There are currently no indications that a final decision by the Indian court regarding divorce will not be recognized in the Netherlands. Because the divorce filing of the man in India was already pending at the time that the court gave the interim injunctions order, the requirements of the law in Articles 821 and 826 DCCP have been met. The fact that the recognition of a future Indian divorce decision does not require the registration of that decision in the Dutch civil registers does not change this. Nor is it important that the provisional relief was requested by the woman, while the Indian divorce petition is from the man, since the law does not require that both requests come from the same party.

The statement of the man that in India on January 19, 2016 by the Sharia Court in Mumbai and on July 18, 2017 by the Family Court Mumbai were made provisional, does not change the above. As previously considered, these statements cannot be recognized in the Netherlands.

In view of the foregoing, the Court of Appeal, together with the District Court, is of the opinion that the interim provisions established by order of 1 March 2016 are still in force. Since no complaints are directed against the content of the court's statement of law, the court will ratify the contested decision on this point and dismiss the man's appeal.

Litigation costs

5.21
In view of what has been considered above, there is no reason to order the woman to pay the legal costs as requested by the man. The legal costs in principal appeal will be compensated, so that each party bears its own costs.

in occasional appeal

5.22
In incidental appeals, the woman took the view that the court wrongly detained the decision regarding custody and principal residence until it will decide in India in an irrevocable court decision on divorce and on authority and principal residence of [child 1]. According to the woman, the man is doing everything to prevent divorce and decisions about authority from being made in India. The woman therefore asks primarily to determine that the court can make a decision without further arrest, or alternatively that only a Dutch divorce decision has to be awaited.

The man put up a defense.

5.23
The court rules as follows. The court has detained the decision regarding the authority and the principal residence pending the final decision on the termination of authority in the case between the council and the man (case number on appeal: 200.259.370 / 01). ), or until it has been decided in India in an irrevocable court decision, to be recognized in the Netherlands, about the divorce and about the authority and principal residence of [child 1].

The Court of Appeal agrees with the court that the woman holds an interest in the ancillary services that she has requested, as long as the termination of authority pronounced in the case between the husband and the council has not become final. As the Court understands, the woman does not raise a complaint against this part of the contested decision, and the Court also considers it advisable to continue to deal with this case pending the final decision in the case being finalized. between the council and the man.

5.24
However, the court does not agree with the other grounds that the court has based on its decision to arrest and against which the woman has brought grievances. In the event that the decision to terminate the authority of the man would ultimately not become final, the court considers the following.

5.25
With the woman, the court finds that there is insufficient ground to await a decision by the Indian judge regarding parental responsibility over [child 1]. After all, as was considered under 5.14 above, it is plausible that an Indian decision on this cannot be recognized in the Netherlands.

5.26
The following applies with regard to awaiting an Indian decision to dissolve the marriage. In its order of January 18, 2018, the Supreme Court considered that the court hearing a request pertaining to parental responsibility for a child can postpone its decision on that request pending the outcome of a case pending before a foreign court. or to initiate a divorce proceeding, or may attach conditions related to a divorce to be pronounced abroad. The court has chosen to stay its decision until it has been decided in India in an irrevocable court decision about the divorce, which can be recognized in the Netherlands.

The consequence of this would be that if the decision on the cessation of custody for whatever reason does not become res judicata, the proceedings on parental responsibility over [child 1] cannot be continued until divorce proceedings are final in India. terminated. Nor is it clear with regard to that procedure when the Mumbai Family Court will give a final judgment, notwithstanding the possibility that a legal remedy will be brought against it. In all that possible time lapse, the Court of Appeal does not consider it in the interest of [child 1] that the proceedings should only be continued in the Netherlands after that, which is expected to take the necessary time.

Therefore, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that if the decision to terminate the authority does not become res judicata, the treatment of the ancillary provisions should be continued as soon as possible. If necessary, ancillary provisions may be subject to the condition that they will only come into effect once the marriage of the parties has been dissolved. Insofar as it concerns a marriage dissolution in India, the additional condition then applies that such dissolution in the Netherlands is recognized on the basis of Article 10:57, paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code. The woman rightly argues, moreover, that the dissolution of marriage may also be the result of a divorce to be pronounced by the Dutch court.

5.27
In view of the foregoing and due to the nature of the proceedings, the court will reject the request of the man to order the woman to pay the costs of the cross-appeal and to compensate the costs of the proceedings, so that each party bears its own costs.

in principal and incidental appeal

5.28
The foregoing leads to the ratification of the contested decision, albeit with improvement of grounds as regards the decision to arrest.

4 Decision
The Council:

in principal and incidental appeal

endorses the decision which appealed, with improvement of grounds as contemplated under 5.25 and 5.26 above;

Rejects the husband's request that the decisions on the additional requests of the wife concerning the custody and principal residence of [child 1] be held until the Family Court Mumbai decides on divorce of parties and custody of [child 1];

rejects the man's request to declare that the interim provisions laid down by decision of 1 March 2016 have lost their effect;

compensates the costs of the appeal, so that each party bears its own costs;

refers the matter back to the Noord-Holland court for further settlement and decision, taking into account what has been considered and decided above.

This decision was made by mr. A.V.T. de Bie, mr. M.C. Schenkeveld and mr. T.A.M. Tijhuis, in the presence of the registrar and was publicly pronounced on March 31, 2020 by the oldest councilor.