Pronunciation


COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE HERTOGENBOSCH

Family and youth law team

case number: 200.259.363 / 01

court case number: C / 02/353059 / FA RK 18-6684

decision of the multiple chamber of 12 March 2020

on

[appellant],

residing in [place of residence],

applicant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as [appellant],

lawyer Mr. E. Türk in Bergen op Zoom,

against

[defendant],

residing in [place of residence],

defendant on appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the father,

lawyer mr. P.R. Clover in Bergen op Zoom.

1. Proceedings

For the course of the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Middelburg) court of 4 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1
[appellant] appealed against the aforementioned decision on 13 May 2019.

2.2
The father filed a statement of defense on 5 July 2019.

2.3
The following documents were also received at the court:

- the letter received by [appellant] on May 22, 2019;

- the letter with appendices from [appellant's] lawyer dated 15 January 2020;

- the letter with attachments from the father's lawyer dated 24 January 2020;

- the letter with attachments from the father's lawyer dated 31 January 2020.

2.4
The oral hearing took place on February 4, 2020.

- [appellant] has appeared, assisted by Mr. Türk;

- the father, assisted by mr. M.S. Yap, on behalf of his colleague Mr. Klaver.

2 Facts

3.1
The court of appeal is based on the facts established by the court insofar as no appeal has been brought against it. Among other things, the following has been established.

3.2
From the marriage of the father and [the mother] (hereinafter: the mother) [appellant] was born on [date of birth] 1999. The marriage was dissolved on December 7, 2010 by divorce.

3.3
By divorce decision of December 6, 2010, the court determined that the parenting plan agreed between the father and the mother is part of that order and that the mutual arrangements have been taken from it. The father and mother have agreed in the parenting plan that the father will pay an amount of € 355 per month as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing of [appellant], to be indexed for the first time on 1 January 2010. Furthermore they have agreed that the father will continue to pay this contribution even after [appellant] has reached the age of majority, at least until her 21st birthday.

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1
The contested decision, with changes to the decision of 6 December 2010 and the parenting plan that forms part thereof, states the contribution to be paid by the father to [appellant] in the cost of her living and study (hereinafter: child maintenance) with effect from August 18, 2018 set at € 50 per month.

4.2
[Appellant] requests the annulment of the contested decision and again to declare the father's preliminary request inadmissible or to reject it and to stipulate that as of 1 September 2018 the father will receive child maintenance in the amount of € 408.00. must pay on account [account] in the name of [appellant] and also to stipulate that the father must pay the amount paid to himself in respect of the policy with Aegon to [appellant] within one month after the order of the court has been served on the aforementioned account, with submission of proof of the amount paid by Aegon, costs in law.

The complaints of [appellant] refer to the grounds for the change, the needs of [appellant], the financial capacity of the father and the study insurance with Aegon.

4.3.
The father requests [appellant] to declare inadmissible in her appeal, or to deny her appeal as unfounded or unjustified, costs in law.

4 Reasons of the Decision
Change of circumstances

5.1.1
[appellant] disputes that there are changed circumstances that justify a change in child maintenance. The father has only stated that there are changed circumstances without concrete indication of what the change would consist of.

5.1.2
The father argues that there are changed circumstances. His health, income, fixed expenses and vision have changed. Furthermore, [appellant] has reached the age of majority and there is no insight into her situation.

5.1.3
Pursuant to Article 1: 401 paragraph 1 of the Civil Code (hereinafter: BW), a court decision or agreement regarding maintenance can be amended or withdrawn at a later court decision, if it subsequently ceases to meet the legal standards due to a change in circumstances.

5.1.4
The court considers as follows. The charges stated by the father are not relevant for calculating his capacity for child maintenance, because the calculation is based on a flat-rate system. It is also irrelevant in this situation that the father's health has deteriorated, given the following. The father's income has not changed substantially compared to his income at the time of child maintenance, which the father also acknowledged during the oral hearing.

It is also important that the situation of [appellant] is now transparent to the father. It is no longer a dispute that the assessment of the needs of [appellant] must be based on the WSF standard for MBO students. [appellant] has substantiated sufficiently that from the age of adulthood she still needs the child maintenance to be paid earlier by the father. In view of the above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there is no relevant change of circumstances that justifies a reassessment of the child maintenance to be paid by the father. The court does not yet take into account the decline in income as claimed by the father as of 23 May 2020. There is still an uncertain future event and it is still unclear what the overall financial situation of the father will look like at that time. The Court also finds that at that time it only takes about three months before [appellant] turns 21, so that there is such a short period in which there may be a relevant change that a limited interest is present.

New requests [appellant] on appeal

5.2
The Court of Appeal considers that [appellant] requests for the first time on appeal to set child maintenance at an amount of € 408 per month as of September 1, 2018 and to make a request regarding the study insurance with Aegon. Since [appellant] was not an applicant at first instance, [appellant] cannot request this for the first time on appeal. This means that it is inadmissible with regard to relevant requests.

6 The conclusion
on appeal

6.1
The foregoing leads to the following decision.

6.2
Given the nature of the procedure, the court will compensate the costs of the appeal.

5 Decision
The Council:

declares [appellant] inadmissible with regard to her request regarding the determination of child maintenance at an amount of € 408 per month as of 1 September 2018 and her request regarding the study insurance with Aegon;

quashes the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Middelburg) court of 4 March 2019 and again having:

still rejects the preliminary request from the father;

declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings in that each party is to bear its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. E.M.C. Dumoulin, C.A.R.M. van Leuven and A.M. van Riemsdijk and was pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar on March 12, 2020.
