Pronunciation


verdict

_________________________________________________________________ _
COURT OF GELDERLAND

Civil rights

Meeting place Arnhem

case number: NL19.13648

Judgment of March 10, 2020

in the case of

[Name of plaintiff], living in [place of residence 1], claimant of the claim, defendant of the counterclaim, hereinafter referred to as: the woman, lawyer T. Steffens in Amsterdam,

against

[name of respondent], living in [place of residence 2], respondent to the claim, claimant of the counterclaim, hereinafter referred to as: the man, lawyer A. Oosterhuis-Boeve in Arnhem.

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

the process introduction with productions;

the defense with a counterclaim;

the statement of defense on the counterclaim;

speaking notes on the part of the woman;

the minutes of the oral hearing on 28 January 2020.

1.2.
Finally, judgment has been determined.

2 Facts
2.1.
Parties have been married in community of property.

2.2.
The man has been a shareholder of Promill B.V. since 1994 This company is a director of Windpark de Plaet B.V.

2.3.
The divorce was pronounced in a decision of 6 June 2006. Previously, on April 28, 2006, parties entered into a divorce settlement.

2.4.
For the purpose of determining the value of the shares in Promill B.V. requested advice from the Growth + Acquisition + Advice bureau (hereinafter: Growth +). In a report of April 6, 2006, Growth + laid down an indicative valuation.

2.5.
In the divorce settlement, about Promill B.V. stipulated that the shares herein were allocated to the man at a value of € 300,000, under which he had to pay € 150,000 to the woman because of under-treatment.

2.6.
On June 21, 2006, the parties signed a document entitled “Supplementary Divorce Agreement”. It includes:

(…)

Taking into account that on 6 June 2006 the court pronounced the divorce between the parties and that the divorce will soon be entered in the registers of civil status, the parties additionally agree as follows:

From 1 January 2006 (payable two months after the general shareholders' meeting in 2017), [defendant's name] will donate 50% to [Claimant's name] of the dividend he has received from Promill, provided that Windpark de Plaet is paid at the current location: namely in the Municipality of Oost-Flakkee it is stated that a new Wind Farm is being developed at the location concerned.

If [name of respondent] still has a residual debt with the bank in 2017 regarding the payment of € 150,000 that he has sent to [name of claimant], he must demonstrate by means of underlying documents to [name of claimant] that he has paid the interest on the loan from the annual dividend paid out, and that he has withdrawn a maximum of € 6,000 annually from the distributed dividend for his own subsistence and that he has used the remainder of the annual dividend to repay the aforementioned debt.

In that case, he is free to use the dividend for 2016 to pay off the residual debt (about € 150,000) before distributing.

After 2016, [defendant's name] [Claimant's name] will provide annual insight into the dividend he has received. To this end, he will provide [name of plaintiff] with the annual report of the minutes regarding the resolution on the dividend to be paid to the shareholders.

The donations will be terminated or will not take place as soon as the Wind Farm operation stops at the location concerned or as soon as one of them ([respondent's name] or [claimant's name] dies.

3 Scope of Dispute
to the claim 3.1.
The woman seeks conviction of the man, executable from stock, for:

I. to provide her with a written statement of the dividend payments made by the man, at least the company of which he is a shareholder, indirectly or indirectly, over the financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018 as shareholder of Promill B.V. within fourteen days after the notification of this judgment. has received, audited by a chartered accountant, under penalty of a penalty of € 500 per day (part) that he remains in default therewith;

II. to pay the woman the dividends declared therein plus the legal interest on this amount from July 20, 2017, or at least July 17, 2018, within seven days after making the written statement as referred to under I;

III. during the period that the man, whether indirectly or not, is a shareholder of Promill B.V. within two months after the adoption of the annual accounts, it is necessary to make a written statement of the dividend payments that the man, at least the company of which he is, whether indirectly or indirectly, a shareholder, as a shareholder of Promill B.V. has received, audited by a chartered accountant, under penalty of a penalty of € 500 per day (part) that he remains in default therewith;

IV. to pay the dividends declared therein to the woman within seven days of making the written statement as referred to under III;

V. to pay the legal costs, plus the after-costs.

3.2.
The husband puts forward a reasoned defense and demands that the woman be declared inadmissible in her claims, or enforceable in stock, or to reject these claims.

3.3.
Insofar as relevant, the statements of the parties will be discussed below.

on the counterclaim

3.4.
The man progresses, executable at stock:

Primary:

I. to destroy the agreement concluded between the parties on 21 June 2006;

In the alternative:

II. declare that the man cannot be held to the contract and that the woman cannot therefore demand fulfillment, since this is unacceptable according to standards of reasonableness and fairness;

More alternatively:

III. to determine in what way, which value should be determined, and to appoint an expert for its determination;

Primary and (more) alternative:

IV. to determine that the woman must cooperate in the delivery of the shares in Promill B.V. to the man, under penalty of a penalty of € 1,000, up to a maximum of € 100,000, if the woman fails to comply with that conviction within one month of the notification of this judgment;

V. order the woman to pay the costs of the proceedings.

3.5.
The woman puts forward a reasoned defense and claims that the man, executable on stock, be declared inadmissible in his claims or dismiss these claims, with the husband being ordered to pay the costs of the proceedings.

3.6.
Insofar as relevant, the statements of the parties will be discussed below.

4 Reasons of the Decision
of the claim and the counterclaim 4.1.
The claim and the counterclaim are closely related to each other with regard to the qualification of the agreement between the parties and the validity thereof. The court will discuss these components jointly below.

Qualification of the agreement between the parties

4.2.
The parties differ on the question of which legal qualification should be given to the agreements as laid down in the supplementary divorce settlement. The woman states that the agreements have been made in the context of the (further) division of the matrimonial community (Article 3: 182 of the Civil Code, hereinafter: BW). The man states that the parties have concluded a gift agreement (Article 7: 175 BW).

4.3.
The court rules as follows. The agreement must be interpreted according to the Haviltex benchmark. This not only concerns the words used in the agreement, but also the sense in which the parties could reasonably grant each other the agreement in given circumstances and what they could reasonably expect from each other.

4.4.
With regard to the wording, the title of the document, additional divorce agreement, could indicate a further division of the matrimonial community. The text also refers to the upcoming divorce and the agreements made in the (first) covenant regarding the division. On the other hand, the term donation is also used repeatedly. With regard to the word division used in the fourth paragraph, the court finds that this is not relevant in this context, since that word may mean division within the meaning of the marriage community, but also an actual division of an amount.

4.5.
During the oral procedure, the parties did not state anything about the legal qualification they gave to the document. However, it has become clear that the agreements on the covenant and the supplementary agreement were concluded during the same discussion.

4.6.
In this case, the court finds the decisive factor that after the conclusion of the divorce settlement, in principle, nothing could be divided where Promill B.V. concerned. The woman states that the value of Promill B.V.'s shares indicated by Growth + the expected above-average profitable years 2016 to 2018 were not included. Over those years, the usual revenues would be expected, while the costs would be considerably lower in connection with the repayment of bank financing. However, the court cannot - without further explanation, which is missing - put the woman's assertion on this point, given the content of the report, in particular appendices 5 a to c. The expected results for the aforementioned, and further, years are indeed involved in determining the value of the shares in Promill B.V.

4.7.
Now that the parties have determined on the basis of the Growth + report what amount the man had to pay to the woman in the context of the allocation of the shares of Promill B.V. to him, in principle, the distribution, also with regard to the expected result for the years 2016 to 2018, was final. It is also important for the court that with a value of the shares of € 300,000, a relatively high value has been assumed in the context of the distribution in the light of Growth + reporting. That makes it all the more plausible that it included the expected more profitable years.

4.8.
In short, it must be assumed that after the agreements in the divorce settlement about the shares in Promill B.V. nothing could be divided in this respect, and the text and party statements do not point in any other direction, it must be assumed that the husband is obliged to pay to the woman part of dividends from Promill B.V. has promised. In view of that determination, the further agreement counts as a gift agreement.

The validity of the agreements

4.9.
The man has primarily stated that the gift agreement is voidable due to abuse of circumstances. In the alternative, he has argued that it would be unacceptable, according to standards of reasonableness and fairness, if the woman (fully) keeps him to the agreements contained in the gift agreement.

Abuse of circumstances

4.10.
In view of the above qualification of the further agreement, the claim of the man to annul the gift agreement due to abuse of circumstances must be assessed on the basis of article 7: 176 BW. The man can make this appeal at any time by way of defense (Article 3:51, paragraph 3, of the Dutch Civil Code), so that this power does not lapse, contrary to what the woman has stated.

4.11.
Article 7: 176 of the Dutch Civil Code provides that if the donor establishes facts from which it follows that the donation was brought about by misuse of circumstances, the burden of proof of the contrary rests on the recipient, in the event of an invocation of voidability, unless the donation is notarized a document has been drawn up as to whether this division of the burden of proof would be contrary to reasonableness and fairness in the given circumstances.

Abuse of circumstances is present when a person who knows or must understand that someone else is being persuaded to perform a legal act, such as a state of emergency, dependence, frivolity, abnormal mental state or inexperience, even though it promotes the conclusion of that legal act, although what he knows or must understand should keep him from doing so (Section 3:44 (4) of the Dutch Civil Code).

4.12.
The man has stated that the gift agreement was concluded in a very turbulent period for him. The man worked as a spiritual counselor at Defense at the Seedorf location in Germany. That base closed and the man was called upon by many staff members. The man himself also had to prepare for a transfer. In addition, the divorce, the search for other living space because of the divorce and also the care for the children. The man argues that the woman's sister in particular put great pressure on him to sign the donation agreement and that he was unable to resist the pressure due to the circumstances mentioned above due to the stress.

4.13.
In the opinion of the court, the man with these allegations did not sufficiently motivate the abuse of circumstances to charge the woman with evidence to the contrary as referred to in Section 7: 176 of the Dutch Civil Code. The stress mentioned by the man as a result of, among other things, the divorce and the consequences thereof will undoubtedly have been the case (just as much as for the woman), but that there has been an abnormal mental state - apparently intended by the man - is not explicitly stated, let alone provided with some substantiation. The man takes a position about health complaints and their treatment, but there is no documentation on this.

4.14.
In addition, the man did not state that the woman, at least her sister with whom the agreements about the gift were made, knew or had to understand that the man had an abnormal mental state. When asked, the man said during the oral hearing that he would have been hunted during the period when the gift agreement was concluded. There is no relevant statement about science among the (sister of the) wife of the alleged abnormal mental state. The man has offered some evidence, but on this point it is already true that the man has not stated anything that, if proven, can prove the correctness of the man's statements.

4.15.
On the basis of the above, the court sees no reason to charge the woman with evidence to the contrary of the alleged abuse of circumstances. The man has not stated enough to get there, at least counter-evidence would be contrary to reasonableness and fairness on the basis of the above.

4.16.
The burden of proof for the alleged abuse of circumstances therefore remains on the man. In view of the above, the court finds that the husband has not stated sufficiently to substantiate that the criteria for a successful appeal to abuse of circumstances, as referred to in Section 3:44 (3) of the Dutch Civil Code, are met, especially where the woman's science is concerned of the abnormal mental state that he apparently claims. The appeal for annulment of the grant agreement is therefore rejected.

Reasonableness and fairness

4.17.
In view of this opinion, the assessment of the man's appeal to the limiting effect of reasonableness and fairness is due (Article 6: 2 paragraph 2 in connection with Article 6: 248 of the Dutch Civil Code).

Parties to an agreement are not only bound by what they agree, but also reasonableness and fairness play a role in this. A rule applicable between parties as a result of an agreement does not apply if this is unacceptable in the given circumstances in accordance with standards of reasonableness and fairness.

4.18.
In the circumstances under which the gift agreement was concluded, the court sees no reason to rule that the current demand for compliance with that agreement would be unacceptable in view of the above judgment regarding those circumstances.

4.19.
In this context, the man further states that his obligations to women are in fact infinite, limited only by the life of the parties. However, during the oral hearing it became clear that the obligation of the man ends when the life of the windmills present during the conclusion of the gift agreement has expired, at least that the obligation of the man is limited to future revenues that can be reduced to the revenues of those windmills at the time. Other circumstances that are relevant in this context, for example the financial position of the man, have not been set.

4.20.
All in all, the man has insufficiently substantiated his appeal to the limiting effect of reasonableness and fairness, and that appeal is therefore rejected.

Conclusion

4.21.
The agreement concluded between the parties must be classified as a gift agreement. The man's appeal to annulment of the contract fails, as does the appeal to the restrictive effect of reasonableness and fairness.

further from the counterclaim

Valuation of shares

4.22.
The husband has stated that if the woman can still assert rights against him under the gift agreement, an expert should be appointed to determine what the woman is entitled to. In this context, the man has stated that Promill B.V. various activities are performed and it is not easy to trace which part of the result from Windpark de Plaet B.V. stems.

4.23.
The court sees no reason to honor the man's request. The man did not provide any insight into (the annual figures of) Promill B.V. There is no question of a dividend declared and claimed by the woman, to which she would claim that the man's arguments were substantiated, on the basis of which the court would like to be informed by an expert. Based on the decision to be made in these proceedings, the husband must provide the wife with insight into the figures regarding Promill B.V. If the man needs the assistance of an expert for this, he can, whether or not in consultation with the woman, seek that expert.

Delivery of shares

4.24.
The man points out that the shares in Promill B.V. have never been delivered to him, even though the woman is obliged to do so under the divorce settlement. The woman has not contested this obligation, but is relying on suspension in connection with the husband's obligation to her established in these proceedings. The husband has in turn acknowledged that such a right of suspension is vested in the wife if her claim is upheld. Now that this is the case, the husband's claim to sentence the woman to cooperate in the delivery of the shares to him is dismissed.

further from the claim

Finally

4.25.
With reference to what has been decided on the claim and the counterclaim, the woman's claim is ready for allocation. The husband has not defended the periods within which the husband must perform, nor against the aggravation of his obligations with a penalty payment and statutory interest. The court will maximize the penalty payment as determined below.

Feasibility with stock

4.26.
The man has not put up a defense against the executions being declared enforceable and the court sees no reason to omit enforceability in stock.

further from the claim and the counterclaim

Litigation costs

4.27.
In cases between parties that have been married, it is normally considered that they each have to bear their own legal costs. This is called compensation of costs. In this case, the court sees no reason to judge the claim or the counterclaim differently and will decide on this compensation.

5 Decision
The court

on the claim

5.1.
Condemns the husband to make a written statement to the wife within fourteen days of the notification of this judgment of the dividend payments made by the husband, at least the company of which he is, whether or not indirectly, a shareholder, for the financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018 as shareholder from Promill BV has received, audited by a chartered accountant, under penalty of a penalty of € 500 per day (part) that he remains in default with this, with a maximum of € 25,000,

5.2.
condemns the man to pay the dividends declared therein plus the statutory interest on this amount within seven days after making the written statement as referred to under 5.1 from 20 July 2017 until the day of full payment to the woman,

5.3.
condemns the man during the period that the man, whether or not indirectly, a shareholder of Promill B.V. is annually within two months of adopting the financial statements to provide the woman with a written statement of the dividend payments that the man, at least the company of which he is, whether indirectly or indirectly, a shareholder, as a shareholder of Promill B.V. has received, audited by a chartered accountant, under penalty of a penalty of € 500 per day (part) that he remains in default with this, with a maximum of € 25,000,

5.4.
condemns the man to pay the dividends declared therein to the woman within seven days of making the written statement referred to in 5.3,

5.5.
declares the foregoing feasible with stock,

5.6.
compensates the costs of the proceedings in such a way that each of the parties bears its own costs,

on the counterclaim

5.7.
dismisses the claim,

5.8.
compensates the process costs so that each of the parties bears its own costs.

This verdict was pronounced by mr. M.J.C. van Leeuwen and pronounced in public on 10 March 2020 and signed by Mr. S. Kropman.