Pronunciation


SUPREME COURT OF THE NETHERLANDS

CIVIL ROOM

Number 18/05311

Date May 15, 2020

JUDGMENT

In the case of

[the woman], residing in [place of residence],

Claimant to cassation,

hereinafter: [the woman],

lawyer: J.H.M. from Swaaij,

against

THE RECIPIENT OF THE TAX SERVICE / UTRECHT-GOOI, established in Amersfoort,

DEFENDANT in cassation,

hereinafter: the Recipient,

lawyer: J.W.H. from neighbourhood.

1 Proceedings

For the course of the proceedings in factual bodies, the Supreme Court refers to:

the judgments in case C / 16/323182 / HA ZA 12-672 of the Central Netherlands court of 21 November 2012 and 6 November 2013;

the judgments in case 200.138.838 of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal of 22 August 2017 and 18 September 2018.

[the woman] has appealed against the judgment of the court of 18 September 2018.

The Recipient has filed a defense to reject.

The case was explained to the Recipient by his lawyer.

The Opinion of Advocate General P. Vlas seeks to set aside the judgment under appeal and to refer it to it.

2 Facts
2.1
The following can be assumed in cassation.

(i) [the woman] and [the man] were married to each other in community of property in Romanian law in 1990 in Romania.

(ii) Both have Romanian nationality. [the woman] also has Dutch nationality since 1978. [the man] obtained Dutch nationality in 2013.

(iii) The marriage community includes real estate in Veenendaal.

Ten (post-clearance) assessments for various taxes were imposed on [the man] relating to the years 1994-1999. In February 2002 and January 2007, injunctions for these attacks were served on [the man]. In 2010, the (partly reduced) attacks became irrevocable.

(iv) In September 2010, the Recipient notified [the man] that his deferred payment regarding the assessments has expired. [the man] has been requested to pay the outstanding tax debt. [the man] did not comply with this request.

(v) In an overview of the debt of [the man] as per March 2012 specified by the Recipient, outstanding tax assessments are stated in an amount of € 524,220 in total, in costs an amount of € 12,200 in total and in interest an amount of € 213,581 in total.

(vi) Meanwhile, the divorce between [the woman] and [the man] has been pronounced and entered in the relevant registers in Romania and the Netherlands.

3 Appeal
2.2
In these proceedings, insofar as relevant in cassation, the Recipient primarily claims a declaration of entitlement that he may recover his claim on [the man] of a total of € 524,220 in principal from the property of the marriage community of [the man ] and [the woman], and alternatively that [the man] and [the woman] are sentenced to divide the (property of) their matrimonial community, insofar as necessary for the recovery of the claim of the Recipient against [the man].

At first instance, the Receiver based these claims on the grounds that, under applicable Romanian law, there is a private debt of [the man] and that he would first have to win private goods from [the man] and then, if that is insufficient would result in the division of the matrimonial community. According to the Recipient, this consequence of the application of Romanian law is manifestly incompatible with Dutch public policy, in view of the importance of the Dutch tax authorities to be able to take immediate action against Dutch tax debts on property of the matrimonial community located in the Netherlands.

2.3
The court rejected the Receiver's claims.

2.4
The court has overturned the final judgment of the court and declared that the Recipient may recover his claim against [the man] against the property of the marriage community of [the man] and [the woman], including the real estate in Veenendaal. To this end, the court of appeal has considered the following.

The court agrees with the court's opinion that Romanian law applies. (ground 5.6)

The most far-reaching appeal ground of the Recipient means that the court wrongly appeals on the public policy exception of art. 10: 6 BW has not accepted. Upon acceptance of that appeal, Romanian law is set aside to the extent that, under Dutch law, the joint property of [the woman] and [the man] can be recovered to recover the tax debt. (legal ground 5.7)

The application of foreign law in the Netherlands and the recognition of legal facts or legal relationships established abroad find their limits in Dutch public policy. This means that the willingness to apply foreign law comes to an end where foreign law conflicts with fundamental principles of the Dutch legal order. Art. 10: 6 BW does not aim to completely overrule foreign law, but only to override those parts of it that are manifestly incompatible with public order. (ground 5.10)

The starting point is that the wide variety of values ​​and standards in the various legal systems should be respected as much as possible. The public policy exception can therefore only be used in exceptional cases against applicable foreign law. This ultimum remedium character of public order is described in art. 10: 6 BW expressed by the words "manifestly incompatible". The adverb "apparently" is a warning that an appeal to the public policy exception must not be taken lightly. This means that even if the foreign legal system designated as applicable deviates significantly from its own law, this is still not sufficient ground for an appeal to public order to succeed. The public order exception must be reserved for speaking cases in which foreign law differs fundamentally from Dutch law in essential respects. (ground 5.11)

There is no question of exceeding what in the opinion of the Netherlands is proper or lawful for a legislator, or of the content of Romanian law being unacceptable. (legal ground 5.13)

However, application of Romanian law should be omitted in the present case. The only (possibly) present asset in Romania represents an unknown value, which is said to be around € 50,000. This would lead to a consequence that, according to Dutch views, should not be tolerated if, under Romanian matrimonial property law, the Recipient could not directly recover and enforce common property at the expense of resident taxpayer (s) who have lived for approximately twenty-five years in Reside in the Netherlands, (have) let their (step) children grow up and study in the Netherlands, and have acquired (the vast majority of) their assets located in the Netherlands through work performed in the Netherlands with (a) company (s) operating in The Netherlands is / are established. There is a great deal of connection with the Netherlands and at the time of the imposed (additional recovery) assessments for the years 1994-1999, [the man] and [the woman] were fiscally linked in such a way that together they were socially and economically essentially formed a unit. That material connection, also with regard to the settlement of tax amounts to be collected and returned, should prevail over the fact that it is formally a matter of distinct legal subjects. If the application of Romanian law might oblige the Recipient to first seek redress in Romania on private property of [the man], in this case the apartment whose value covers the Receiver's claim only to a very small extent, and then to distribute to claim and seek redress on Dutch assets, in the opinion of the Court of Appeal that is incompatible with the compelling social interest and the obligation on the Recipient to (actively) reclaim outstanding tax debts. It also takes into account that the Recipient states that the Romanian tax authorities have been informed that [the man] has no real estate in his name (anymore) in Romania. The acceptance of the public policy exception means that, under Dutch law, recovery of the tax debt of [the man] (also) the property of the community can be extracted. (legal points 5.14 and 5.15)

The primary claim will therefore be awarded. (legal ground 5.16)

4 Reasons of the Decision
3.1.1
Section 1.1 of the plea complains that the Court of Appeal in para. 5.15, when applying the public policy exception of art. 10: 6 BW, has shown an error of law. Public order is about fundamental principles and values ​​of the Dutch legal order. In this case, these are not at issue. The application of Romanian law only prevents a creditor from recovering his claim from goods that belong to someone other than the debtor. This is not an application consequence that is manifestly incompatible with Dutch public policy, even if the creditor is the tax authorities. This does not detract from the large degree of connection between [the woman] and [the man] with the Netherlands, according to the section.

3.1.2
Art. 10: 6 BW provides that foreign law is not applied, insofar as its application is manifestly incompatible with public policy. As the court in rov. 5.10-5.11 of its judgment, public order only precludes the application of foreign law in exceptional cases. It only concerns those cases in which foreign law itself, or its application in the specific case, is incompatible with fundamental principles of the Dutch legal order.

3.1.3
The court presumably assumed that the tax debt of [the man] under Romanian law is a private debt and that the Recipient must first attempt to extract any private property from [the man] before claiming the division of the matrimonial community. . The part must be assessed in that context (not contested in cassation).

3.1.4
It does not follow from the circumstances underpinning his judgment that the application of Romanian matrimonial property law in this specific case is manifestly incompatible with fundamental principles of the Dutch legal order. The strong ties of [the woman] and [the man] with the Netherlands in fiscal, economic and social matters concern the involvement of the Dutch legal order in the dispute with the Recipient. However, it is not clear which fundamental principle of the Dutch legal order is at issue when applying Romanian matrimonial property law. The fact that, in applying that right, the Recipient is hindered in the exercise of his recovery duties because this may oblige him to seek redress of private property of [the man] in Romania before he can claim division of the community, and that he can then only recount what is attributed to [the man] in that division, but does not touch fundamental principles of the Dutch legal order.

3.1.5
Section 1.1 succeeds.

3.2
The other complaints of the product do not require treatment.

5 Decision
The high Council:

- set aside the judgment of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice of 18 September 2018;

- refers the dispute to the court of appeal in 's-Hertogenbosch for further consideration and decision;

- orders the Recipient to pay the costs of the cassation proceedings, estimated up to this judgment on the side of [the woman] at € 2,157.19 in disbursements and € 2,600 in salary.

This judgment was delivered by Vice President C.A. Streefkerk as chairman and the councilors M.V. Polak, T.H. Tanja-van den Broek, C.E. du Perron and H.M.Wattendorff, and pronounced in public by Councilor C.E. du Perron on May 15, 2020.

District Court of the Central Netherlands, 6 November 2013, ECLI: NL: RBMNE: 2013: 5344.

Court of Appeal Arnhem-Leeuwarden September 18, 2018, ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2018: 8333.

Cf. HR March 13, 1936, ECLI: NL: HR: 1936: 134 and ECLI: NL: HR: 1936: 140.