Pronunciation


pronunciation

COLLEGE OF PROFESSION FOR BUSINESS
case number: 19/541

Judgment of the plenary chamber of 21 April 2020 on the appeal of: [name 1], in [place], appellant
against the judgment of the Audit Chamber of March 15, 2019, given on a complaint, filed by appellant against

[name 2] AA (person concerned)
(authorized representative: Mr. D.C. Theunis).

1 Proceedings
The appellant has appealed against the judgment of the accountant chamber of March 15, 2019, with number 18/1122 Wtra AK (www.tuchtrecht.nl, ECLI: NL: TACAKN: 2019: 19).

The person concerned has given a written response to the appeal.

The hearing was conducted on January 22, 2020.

The appellant has appeared. The person concerned has also appeared, assisted by his authorized representative.

2 Facts
1.1
For a detailed account of the course of the procedure and the facts and circumstances relevant to this case, insofar as they are not disputed, reference is made to the content of the contested judgment of the Audit Chamber, which is considered to be inserted here. The Board suffices with the following.

1.2
The person concerned and [name 3] ([name 3]) are founders of the office De [name 4] B.V. The person concerned is an accountant, [name 3] works as a relationship manager.

1.3
The appellant was married under marital conditions to [name 5] ([name 5]), which had its own company called [name 6]. [name 3] took care of the payroll and IB / PVV declarations of appellant and [name 5]. The person concerned compiled the company's annual accounts each year. From 1997, for tax reasons, the company was conducted on the advice of [name 3] as V.O.F. [name 6], of which the appellant and [name 5] were the partners.

1.4
The appellant and [name 5] were divorced on March 27, 2013. The divorce was registered in the registers of civil status on December 10, 2013. The appellant subsequently started a procedure regarding the distribution of the marital property. In addition, the appellant, insofar as it is relevant in this case, has demanded a declaration of justice that it is unacceptable, according to standards of reasonableness and fairness, to settle the division in accordance with prenuptial agreement.

1.5
By letter of 13 November 2014, [name 3] answered questions from the appellant's lawyer in response to the statement of the property of the spouses during marriage, which he prepared at the request of the lawyer of [name 5].

1.6
On 27 May 2015, the appellant's attorney in divorce proceedings delivered a conclusion after a comparative hearing. It states that the appellant disputes the content of the report reported by [name 3] and considers the information to be incomplete and that insofar as [name 3] has already answered the questions she raised, he has provided incorrect or incomplete answers.

1.7
By court, the court dismissed the requested statement of jurisdiction and divided the matrimonial community in accordance with the prenuptial agreement. This judgment has been upheld on appeal on this point.

1.8
By letter of 3 April 2018, [name 3] responded on behalf of the office to the liability filed by the appellant's lawyer.

3 Scope of Dispute
2.1
The complaint, as reflected in the judgment of the accountancy chamber, includes the following accusations:

[name 3] did not advise the appellant during her marriage in accordance with the prenuptial agreement, nor did she administer in accordance with the prenuptial agreement, although he was aware of these conditions;

The advice to set up a general partnership was incorrect;

The letter of 13 November 2014 is incorrect on several points and runs counter to previous advice;

The declaration for the letter of November 13, 2014 is excessively high.

Since [name 3] performed his work under the responsibility of the person concerned, the person concerned is liable for disciplinary action, according to the appellant.

2.2
In the contested decision, the audit chamber declared the complaint (in its entirety) inadmissible. In the opinion of the Audit Chamber, the appellant did not submit her complaint of 4 July 2018 within the periods referred to in Article 22, first paragraph, of the Accountants' Disciplinary Court Act (Wtra), as this article read until 1 January 2019. The appellant's complaint is according to the accountancy chamber, not partially filed within three years after it has established or can reasonably conclude that the act or omission of the person concerned is contrary to the provisions of or pursuant to the Act on the accountancy profession (Wab) or to the interest of proper exercise of the audit profession, and for the rest submitted only after a period of six years has elapsed between the time of the act or omission and the time of submission of the complaint.

4 Reasons of the Decision
3. In summary, the appellant states that the accountant chamber has not correctly interpreted and reported her complaint. The accountants' chamber did not decide on the complaint as the appellant intended. The appellant states that it has made clear in her complaint that her complaint concerns the suspicion that the person concerned at one time (s) acted in conflict and incorrectly to the best of her knowledge. This suspicion could not have arisen with the appellant until after receiving the letter of 3 April 2018 in which [name 3] responded to the liability. Furthermore, the appellant is of the opinion that the Audit Chamber based its decision on facts that are incorrect and / or irrelevant or have been misinterpreted. The Audit Chamber has also failed to disclose important facts. With regard to the considerations on the grounds of which complaint parts a to d were declared inadmissible, the appellant stated that the audit chamber's considerations are irrelevant in this respect, as they ignore the substance of the complaint.

4. The Board first of all states that the Audit Chamber is free to summarize a complaint in a business sense (see, for example, the Board's decision of 27 October 2015, ECLI: NL: CBB: 2015: 359). The Audit Chamber does not have to include all arguments put forward by a complainant in support of his complaint. In view of the structure and wording of the complaint, the Board does not understand that the accountants' chamber interpreted and reflected the complaint of the appellant as it did in recital 3.2 of the contested decision.

5. In her appeal and at the hearing of the Board, the appellant clarified that she intended to file only one complaint against the person concerned. That complaint means, the Board understands, that [name 3], in its letter of 13 November 2014, incorrectly advised 'against better judgment' in answering questions asked to him, in the sense that it took the starting point at that time. at least has argued that it should be taken as a starting point that the appellant and her husband had (built up) individual assets during the marriage, while he never assumed this until then, and incidentally also afterwards. The fact that [name 3] acted against this to the best of his knowledge has only become clear to the appellant in response to the letter of 3 April 2018, in which [name 3] stated that he did not consider the existence of prenuptial agreements and individual abilities. According to the appellant, this was the object of her complaint. The audit chamber has wrongly identified the points that she has put forward for explanation in her complaint as parts of the complaint.

6. The Board assesses the complaint as explained by the appellant as follows.

[name 3] did not write in the letter of April 3, 2018, as the appellant states, that he did not know of the existence of the prenuptial agreement or individual assets. The letter states that [name 3], at least his office, "was in no way involved in (any advice on) the prenuptial agreements concluded by [appellant] with [her] former husband." The letter also states: “In each case, we indicated (…) that the income tax returns submitted by us have been drawn up in accordance with the tax rules and that, in accordance with your wishes, the distribution of the so-called common income has taken place in such a way that the joint income tax (…) was optimized. You were aware that this tax distribution differs from individual assets under the matrimonial property regime that applied to you at the time. ” The appellant's assertion, that it appears from the letter of April 3, 2018 that [name 3] advised against incorrectly in his letter of November 13, 2014, is based on a wrong reading of the letter of April 3, 2018. The letter of April 3, 2018 also provides no further basis for the presumption that [name 3] in the letter of November 13, 2014 advised against incorrect judgment, or that there was otherwise an act or omission in violation of the determined by or pursuant to the Wab or with the interest of the proper exercise of the accountancy profession.

It follows that, in so far as it relates to the letter of 13 November 2014, the Audit Chamber correctly declared the complaint inadmissible on the ground - set out in recital 4.13 of the contested decision - that the complaint of 4 July 2018 did not fall within the the three-year term referred to in Article 22 (1) of the Wtra (old) has been submitted.

7. Now that the appellant has clarified that what she has stated further in her complaint does not constitute a complaint, but is only intended as an explanation of her one complaint, it remains to be seen whether the accountant chamber has correctly interpreted the complaint for the rest and rightly so. declared inadmissible.

8. The conclusion is that the appeal is unfounded.

9. The decision on this appeal is partly based on Chapter V of the Wtra.

5 Decision
The Board declares the appeal unfounded.

This statement was made by mr. W.A.J. van Lierop, mr. M.M. Smorenburg and mr. J.L. Verbeek, in the presence of mr. C.G.M. van Ede, registrar. The decision was publicly pronounced on April 21, 2020.

The chairman is unable to sign the decision.

The registrar is unable to sign the decision.