Pronunciation


Order of April 21, 2020

associated with EJ No. AUA201903845

COURT IN FIRST INSTANCE OF ARUBA

DECISION

in the maintenance case between

[applicant],

living in Aruba,

THE APPLICANT, hereinafter: the man,

Agents: the lawyers mrs. C.B.A. Coffee and J.C.F. Chicken,

and

[defendant],

residing in Aruba, at [address],

DEFENDANT, hereinafter referred to as woman,

litigating in person.

1 Proceedings

The procedure is evident from:

the petition, filed on November 5, 2019;

the defense with a package of productions;

the further productions (numbers 13 to 19) of the man;

the oral hearing at the session of 14 January 2020, at which the man in person appeared, assisted by the aforementioned agents, and the woman in person;

the pleadings of the man, presented and presented at the hearing.

The ruling is further specified today.

2 Facts
2.1
Parties were married to each other. Two daughters were born within their marriage, of which the oldest, [name of young adult 1], born on [date of birth], is of age and the youngest, [name of minor 2], born on October 3, 2005 in Aruba, is still a minor.

2.2
Divorce between the parties was pronounced by order of this court of 14 April 2014 (EJ No. 559 of 2014). The divorce settlement agreed by the parties is attached to the divorce decision, so that the content thereof forms part of the decision.

2.3
To the extent relevant here, the parties have agreed in the covenant that from the eighteenth birthday of the oldest daughter until the eighteenth birthday of the youngest daughter, the husband will owe Afl. 1,750 per month. The parties have also agreed with regard to the daughters that the man will pay Afl. Monthly until their 21st year. 1,255 per child will contribute towards their costs of care and upbringing or the cost of living and study. Pursuant to the covenant, the husband will continue to pay an Afl. 5,000 per child, and Afl. Pay 3,000.

2.4
At the time of the divorce, the man was director of the public limited company Elmar N.V .. The salary briefs submitted by him show that as such he received a monthly net salary of ± Afl. 9,800 excluding the annual holiday allowance, allowances and bonuses. In October 2018, after a dispute between Elmar N.V. and the man, the employment contract between them was terminated, with the man being granted compensation.

2.5
From June 1, 2019, the man works as a General manager at the company that is registered to his sister. It appears from the salary slips he has submitted that he has completed a net salary of Afl. Receives 3,464 per month.

3 Appeal
3.1.1
The request aims to amend the spousal and child maintenance provided by the above-mentioned decision of 14 April 2014, in the sense that the amount of child maintenance to be paid by the husband will be reduced to Afl. 375, - per child per month as of November 1, 2019, and the partner maintenance will be reduced to nil.

3.1.2
To this end, the man argued that the maintenance contributions agreed by the parties at the time of the divorce were based on the income he earned as director at the time. In addition, the parties also agreed at the time that the man would pay the mortgage payment of Afl. Will pay 2.545, - per month for the house, which is allocated to the woman. This also counts as a form of maintenance. On average, the man has to pay Afl. To pay € 7,889 in maintenance. After he lost his job as director, he was able to fulfill his maintenance obligation from the severance payment until April 2019. In the meantime, this compensation has been exhausted and his income has been reduced (by 65%) so that the amount that he would have to pay monthly in maintenance is higher than his net monthly wages. It is therefore still impossible for him to fulfill that maintenance obligation. According to the man, there is therefore a change in circumstances, which means that the maintenance payments he owes no longer meet the legal standards.

The man has further argued that the fact that the woman has earning capacity of at least Afl. 2.500, - per month, which she deliberately leaves unutilized, and which she has assets, namely a house with a surplus value that she can sell, which she can use to support herself.

3.2
The wife has put up a defense, rejecting the husband's request. To that end, it has argued - in summary - that the man must have received a considerable amount as compensation (golden handshake) upon his dismissal from Elmar NV, given his expenses as shown by the bank statements he has submitted, and that he now also has more income than what he indicates.

Regarding her earning capacity, the woman argued that she had a good job with Elmar N.V. before the marriage and that the parties decided in October 2004 that she would stop working so that the man could become a director there. Her wages then averaged Afl. 7,000 per month. During the divorce, the parties agreed that the husband owes her this amount of maintenance, because she sacrificed her career and income for him at the time.

4 Reasons of the Decision
4.1
The request is based on Article 1: 401 of the Civil Code of Aruba (BW). Pursuant to that provision, a court decision or a maintenance contract may be amended or revoked at a later decision if it subsequently ceases to meet legal standards by changing circumstances. The foregoing does not apply to a request for a change of a term that the court has determined under Article 157, or which is included in an agreement as referred to in Article 15 8.

Pursuant to the second paragraph, the term that the judge has determined on the basis of Article 157, third, fifth or sixth paragraph, second sentence, or which is included in an agreement as referred to in Article 158, can be set at the request of one of the former spouses amended, in the event of such a drastic change in circumstances that the applicant cannot be required to maintain the time limit unaltered in accordance with the standards of reasonableness and fairness.

4.2
There is no dispute between the parties that there is a change in circumstances. In any case, this change in circumstances means that the man lost his job as director in October 2018, as a result of which there was a (significant) fall in income. The court will therefore - by recalculating the alimony to be paid by the husband and taking into account all relevant circumstances - assess whether there is such a drastic change in circumstances that the husband no longer meets the standards of reasonableness and fairness. can be kept to the divorce settlement.

4.3
In the assessment, the court states that parents are obliged to provide for the costs of care and upbringing of their minor and young adult children. This is done according to capacity. Decisive for the amount of child maintenance are the costs of care and upbringing of the child and the carrying capacity of both the mother and the father. In order to determine everyone's ability to pay, the net income must be mutually determined, as well as the fixed costs that are reasonably given priority over the payment of child maintenance.

The basic principle is that when determining the ability of a debtor to pay maintenance, it is not only about the income that he has, but also the income that he can reasonably be expected to acquire in the near future.

4.4.1
In determining the costs of care and upbringing, the court uses an amount of Afl. As guideline for children aged 12 years and older who are at Colegio Arubano. 750, - per month. This amount includes the necessary school costs and the costs of clothing, recreation and personal care. This amount may be increased if it becomes apparent of special expenses for the child that are not included in the above amount. In this case, no evidence of such expenditure has been established, so that the court will determine the need of the minor daughter at Afl. 750, - per month.

4.4.2
As regards the young adult daughter, who studies in the Netherlands, the court will adhere to the aforementioned guideline for minor children and will also determine the costs of living and study of the young adult daughter on Afl. 750, - per month.

4.5.1
It is not disputed between the parties that the woman has not had an income from work for more than fifteen years. The salary slips she submitted show that at the time (in 2004) she received a gross monthly salary from Afl. 7,000. According to the woman, parties had agreed during their marriage that she would stop working. Whatever the case, the parties have now been separated for more than five years and, in the opinion of the court, the woman has made insufficient efforts after the divorce to use her earning capacity. The court will therefore assume that, given her last-earned wages and her chances on the current labor market, the woman has earning capacity of Afl. 2,500 per month.

4.5.2
With regard to expenses, the court takes into account a lump sum of Afl. 1,400 for your own living expenses. The woman holds (fictitiously) an amount of Afl. 1.100, - with which she can meet her maintenance obligation towards the children.

4.6.1
The pay slips submitted by the man show that he has an average net monthly wage of rounded Afl. 3,464. It has not been shown that the man also receives additional bonuses and / or bonuses. Nor has it been shown that he has other or more sources of income, as the woman has stated - without further factual substantiation.

4.6.2
With regard to the charges, the court takes into account a lump sum of Afl. 1,400 for your own living expenses and Afl. 1,300 in rent. The man then holds a monthly amount of (3,464 - 2,700 =) Afl. 764, -, with which he must meet his maintenance obligation.

4.7.
In view of the above, in the opinion of the court, there is such a drastic change in circumstances that unaltered enforcement of the maintenance obligation as included in the covenant can no longer be required of the man by standards of reasonableness and fairness.

Now that child maintenance has priority over spousal maintenance, the court will first determine what the man has to pay in child maintenance.

4.8
In view of the costs of care and upbringing of the daughters, on the one hand, and the parents' ability to pay, on the other, the court is of the opinion that the husband should be able to pay Afl. 375, - per child per month to contribute to the children.

The court will further determine that this contribution will take effect from the first of the month after the date of the hearing of this case, therefore from 1 February 2020, since the woman and the young adult daughter have been able to take into account the determination of maintenance.

Now that a contribution such as the present tends to be consumed from month to month and in view of the date of this judgment, the court will determine that insofar as the man has paid more or recovered from him before the said date, the contribution is assimilated to date to what has been paid or recovered from him.

4.9
After payment of the child maintenance, the man has an amount of Afl. 14, - per month. He therefore has no capacity to still be able to meet partner maintenance as agreed in the covenant. The partner maintenance will therefore be set at nil from 1 February 2020.

Here too, now that a contribution such as the present tends to be consumed from month to month and in view of the date of this judgment, the court will determine that insofar as the man paid more or recovered from him before the said date, to date is equated with what has been paid by him or recovered from him.

4.10
The court sees reason to compensate for the costs of these proceedings in that each party bears its own costs.

5 Decision
The court:

amends the order of this court of 14 April 2014 (EJ No. 559 of 2014) to the effect that the aforementioned divorce settlement of 28 February 2014 stated:

a. contribution of the man, [applicant] in the costs of care and upbringing of the minor daughter, [name of minor 2], born on [date of birth] in Aruba, with effect from 1 February 2020, will be Afl. 375, - per month, in the future always to be paid in advance to the Guardianship Council,

b. contribution of the man, [applicant] in the cost of living and study of the daughter of the young adult age [name of the young adult age 1], born on [date of birth] in Aruba, with effect from 1 February 2020, will be Afl. 375, - per month,

c. payment to the wife [defendant] dependent on the husband, [applicant], as of 1 February 2020, is set at nil,

provides that insofar as the man has paid more or recovered from him before 1 February 2020, the maintenance contribution has been equated to the amount paid or recovered by him to date,

declares this order feasible to the extent that it is in stock,

offsets the costs in the sense that each party bears its own costs,

rejects the otherwise or more requested.

This decision was made by mr. N.K. Engelbrecht, judge in this court, and is deemed to have been pronounced in public at the hearing on Tuesday, April 21, 2020 in the presence of the Registrar.