Pronunciation


18/6067 AW

Date of judgment: March 19th 2020

Central Board of Appeal

Multiple room

Judgment on appeal against the judgment of the Rotterdam District Court of 22 October 2018, 17/3608 (attacked judgment)

Parties:

[appellant] in [place of residence] (appellant)

the State Secretary for Finance (State Secretary)

1 Proceedings


Mr. V.M. Weski, lawyer, brought an appeal.

The Secretary of State has lodged a statement of defense.

The examination in court took place on January 23, 2020. The appellant has appeared, assisted by mr. Weski. The State Secretary was represented by

mr. B.A. Raydt.

2 Facts
1.1.
The appellant has been employed by the Ministry of Finance since 1995,

Tax / Customs, since 2005 in the position of selector at the pre-arrival department (CCC-PA) of customs in the port of Rotterdam. Among other things, this department is responsible for determining checks on containers.

1.2.
On April 17, 2015, the appellant was arrested by the police on the grounds of

suspicion of money laundering of funds obtained from criminal activities. An amount of € 11,300 in cash was found and seized in the appellant's house. Her arrest was related to a criminal investigation into a colleague of appellant, G, who also worked in the pre-arrival department and who presumably deliberately kept out of control of incoming containers against large cash payments or had any influence on the way. of checking these containers. This made it possible for criminals to import illegal drugs into the Netherlands. G was arrested in connection with this on April 17, 2015. Recorded and detailed telecommunications showed that he and appellant also had contact with each other outside work and were aware of each other's private lives. During the investigation it was established that the appellant has regularly received cash amounts and gifts in the form of perfume and clothing from G since 2013. It was suspected that appellant knew or should reasonably have known or suspected that the money and gifts she received from G came from some crime.

1.3.
On April 21, 2015, confirmed by letter dated April 28, 2015, the Secretary of State

informed the appellant that she has been suspended with immediate effect and that she has been denied access to the service buildings. These disciplinary measures were subsequently extended several times.

1.4.
On March 18, 2016, the official report of the ongoing criminal case was made available to the State Secretary by the public prosecutor. On March 31, 2016, the public prosecutor made a transaction offer to the appellant. The appellant has not accepted this offer.

1.5.
After intending to inform the appellant of this and to have taken note of her view thereon, the State Secretary, by decision of 16 November 2016, has the appellant effective immediately with the application of Article 81, first paragraph, preamble and under 1 of the General. National Civil Service Regulations (ARAR) for very serious neglect of duty imposed the disciplinary penalty of unconditional dismissal and, alternatively, with the application of Article 98, first paragraph, preamble and under g, of the ARAR for unsuitability other than on the grounds of soul or body dismissals.

The breach of duty is based on the fact that appellant:

1. has been guilty of (debt) laundering of sums, gifts and monthly payments from criminal activities,

2. has declared inconsistent towards the competent authority regarding: the sale of jewelery, the receipt of amounts and savings.

3. has failed to inform her superior about her relationship with a colleague (M).

1.6.
The State Secretary lodged the objection by decision of 11 May 2017 (contested decision)

declared unfounded against the decision of 16 November 2016.

1.7.
By judgment of the court of Rotterdam of July 13, 2018 (ECLI: NL: RBROT: 2018: 5651)

it has been proven that the appellant is guilty of committing counter-money laundering, committed several times by taking money from a corrupt colleague (G) who also worked at Customs. Among other things, she was sentenced to community service of 100 hours. An amount of € 7,000 has also been forfeited. The appellant appealed against this judgment. This appeal is still pending.

2. In the attacked judgment, the court declared the appeal against the contested decision unfounded. To this end, the court has considered that the appellant does not deny that she has accepted cash amounts and gifts in the form of perfume and clothing from G several times since January 2013. However, it has contested the amount and the frequency with which it received the amounts. Given the amounts she received, the recurring nature of the payments and the fact that this took several years, it is likely that she received much more than € 5,000 from G. In the opinion of the court, it is very unusual for a colleague with whom there is no other than a friendly relationship to donate such amounts for years without any consideration. The appellant should have realized that there was something wrong with this generous attitude by G. The appellant's statements show that G had had a very generous spending pattern for several years. This spending pattern could not be explained by G's legal income as a customs officer, who had declined over time due to his wife's illness. Nor could the spending pattern be explained by G's secondary income from his thrift store or by the amount he would have earned from his divorce. Nor is it plausible that such a luxurious lifestyle could be financed by the business of his (seriously ill) wife. The appellant must also have realized this and had her question marks. She should have reasonably suspected that the amounts and gifts received were from some crime. In view of this, she was guilty of money laundering. Given its nature, this behavior in itself already results in serious dereliction of duty. The other behaviors accused of the appellant can therefore remain unspoken.

It has not been shown that the conduct cannot be attributed to the appellant. The disciplinary penalty of unconditional dismissal imposed is not disproportionate to the neglect of duty, given the nature and seriousness of the conduct, the consequences of this for the functioning of customs and the high demands placed on the integrity, openness, reliability and responsibility of employees. . Now that the dismissal is already upheld on the primary ground, the court has not come to an assessment of the alternative ground for dismissal.

3 Appeal
3. On appeal, the appellant has appealed against the

attacked statement turned.

4 Reasons of the Decision

4. The Council makes the following assessment.

4.1.
The appellant acknowledges that from 2013 she has accepted cash amounts and gifts in the form of perfume and clothing from G several times. It disputes the Court's judgment that it should reasonably have suspected that the amounts and gifts received were from any crime and that it was guilty of money laundering and serious neglect of duty.

4.2.
This argument is unsuccessful. The appellant regularly took substantial amounts of money and gifts from G for several years. She was aware that G paid everything in cash and had a very generous spending pattern for several years. This spending pattern could not be explained by G's legal income as a customs officer, which had diminished over time as he had been working less due to his wife's illness. Nor could G's spending pattern be explained by his side income from his thrift store or by the amount he would have received from his ex-wife after his divorce. After all, the statements show that G started the thrift shop shortly before the first payments to the appellant and that he had invested the amount from the divorce in the thrift shop. Nor is it plausible that such a luxurious lifestyle could be financed by the business of his (seriously ill) wife. The appellant should reasonably have suspected that the amounts and gifts received were from any crime. All the more so now that she has been an extraordinary investigative officer. The fact that G's generous spending pattern was known to all colleagues in the department and that they also had no suspicion that G's money came from criminal offenses cannot lead to a different opinion. The appellant dealt more with G in private and, unlike her colleagues, received substantial sums of money and expensive gifts from him. This was also unknown to her colleagues. The Council agrees with the court that the appellant is guilty of money laundering and that this is a serious breach of duty.

4.3.
Given the nature of the conduct in relation to the position of the appellant and the high demands of integrity, reliability and responsibility imposed on employees of the Tax and Customs Administration, which have been justified, the penalty imposed for unconditional dismissal is not disproportionate to the breach of duty. One of the core tasks of Customs is to track down funds obtained from criminal activities. The appellant had an exemplary role and acted contrary to the integrity required of her. Nor does her long and good track record and the financial consequences of her dismissal affect the proportionality of the sentence dismissal. The appellant has failed to demonstrate that the State Secretary acted inconsistently. The three other colleagues whom she mentioned who were also subject to disciplinary punishment were one-off actions and not debt-laundering over a longer period.

4.4.
It follows from 4.1 to 4.3 that the appeal is unsuccessful, so that the attacked judgment will be confirmed.

5. There is no reason for a court order against costs.

5 Decision
The Central Board of Appeal confirms the attacked judgment.

This statement was made by H. Lagas as chairman and H. Benek and A.T. Marseille as members, in the presence of M. Buur as registrar. The decision was pronounced in public on March 19, 2020.

(signed) H. Lagas

(signed) M. Buur