Pronunciation


verdict

COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Private law department, civil relief judge

case number / roll number: C / 13/680770 / KG ZA 20-226 CdK / MAH

Interlocutory judgment of 1 May 2020

in the case of

[claimant],

residing in [residence 1], Poland,

claimant by summons of 24 March 2020,

lawyer mr. K. Walburg in Alkmaar,

against

[defendant],

residing in [residence 1],

defendant,

lawyer mr. M.B. Chylinska in Haarlem.

The parties will hereinafter be referred to as [claimant] and [defendant].

1 Proceedings
The parties have conducted a written procedure, in accordance with the Temporary derogating regulation for summary proceedings in commercial / family courts because of the special circumstances caused by the Corona crisis. [Plaintiff] has made a summons, with productions, as stated under 3.1. On 31 March 2020, [defendant] filed a reply. After written instructions from the preliminary relief judge, the parties submitted their re- and rejoinder in emails from April 14, 2020 and April 16, 2020, respectively. Judgment is determined to date.

2 Facts
2.1.
Parties were married on [date] in [residence 1] (Poland). Parties are of Polish nationality and their first habitual residence after marriage was in Poland. The marital home at [address] in [residence 1] is jointly owned. [defendant] lives in that house. Parties have two minor children.

2.2.
[Claimant] has been living with the children of parties in Poland since May 2019. She did not have permission from [defendant] for this move. [defendant] has reported child abduction to this.

2.3.
[Defendant] filed a divorce petition in the Netherlands on 3 June 2019 by submitting a petition to the Amsterdam District Court ([role number]). The petition was notified to [claimant] on 29 October 2019. [Plaintiff] lodged a defense in that procedure on 31 March 2020.

2.4.
[Claimant] filed for divorce in Poland on July 17, 2019. The Polish judge arrested the case on January 27, 2020 and, in connection with his jurisdiction, asked the Polish Ministry of Justice to obtain information about Dutch law.

3 Scope of Dispute
3.1.
[claimant] claims - summarized:

I. Commandment to [defendant] to instruct a broker to be chosen by [claimant] within three working days after the judgment has been served on the estate agent, with stipulation that the parties will agree on the asking and asking price to the broker's judgment, under penalty of a penalty payment, and that they share the costs of sale,

II. commandment to [defendant] that he cooperate in taking pictures, placing advertisements and that he allows viewing actions and follows instructions from the broker, on pain of a penalty,

III. command to cooperate with the sale and delivery for an amount deemed reasonable by the broker, and if [defendant] does not cooperate, substitute the judgment for the necessary cooperation,

IV. commandment to [defendant] to implement the under III. the purchase agreement referred to by cooperating with the notary concerned in the transfer of ownership, with the provision that if [defendant] does not appear or does not cooperate, the judgment will replace the necessary cooperation,

V. order of [defendant] to pay the legal costs.

3.2.
[defendant] puts up a defense. He concluded that the claims should be dismissed on the following grounds. No urgent interest has been demonstrated by [claimant]. Furthermore, [defendant] would like to take over the house and is busy obtaining a mortgage, he expects to obtain higher income in the future with his own company, so that this is also realistic. The community of property has not yet been dissolved, the parties have not yet been separated. In the alternative, [defendant] requests him to give him six months to take over the house himself.

3.3.
Insofar as relevant, the statements of the parties will be discussed below.

4 Reasons of the Decision
4.1.
Before judging on the other aspects of this case, it is important to know what the jurisdiction and the law to apply to this dispute are.

Since the divorce case was filed in the Netherlands on June 3, 2019 and that in Poland on July 17, 2019, it is plausible that the Polish judge will have to stay the case until the jurisdiction of the Amsterdam District Court has been established. This follows from Article 19 of Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and on matters of parental responsibility (hereinafter: Brussels IIa). Both the Dutch court and the Polish court are bound by this Regulation. After all, the petition in the Dutch case was also served on [claimant], so that the case has been brought in accordance with Article 16 Brussels IIa since 3 June 2019. The Polish court must declare that it has no jurisdiction on the basis of Article 17 Brussels IIa. On the basis of Article 10:56 of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), the Dutch court will apply Dutch law to the request for divorce.

4.2.
Now that the division of the matrimonial estate has not been made as an additional request to the divorce petition in either the Netherlands or Poland, this may have to be done in a separate procedure. The power with regard to a separate request / subpoena for distribution is determined in the Netherlands according to the normal rules of jurisdiction of the Code of Legal Procedure (Rv). The present summary proceedings have been instituted in anticipation of this. Now that the plaintiff lives abroad and is a defendant in Amsterdam, the Amsterdam District Court has jurisdiction to hear this dispute on the basis of Article 109 DCCP. The preliminary relief judge is also competent in that case. It is also possible for the Polish court to have jurisdiction, if (first) a case concerning the distribution of the matrimonial estate would be requested there.

4.3.
The claim of [claimant] anticipates the division of the matrimonial estate. The law to be applied to the matrimonial property regime is determined in the Netherlands by the Hague Marriage Property Convention 1978 because the marriage was concluded after 1 September 1992 and before 29 January 2019 (entry into force of the EU Regulation (2016/1103) on matrimonial property law). Under Article 4, paragraph 2, under 1, of that Convention, Polish law is to be applied to the present case as the legal system of the common nationality of the parties. The parties themselves also assume this.

4.4.
Under Polish law, the house falls under the joint property of the spouses. During the legal regime of community property, Article 34 of the Polish Family and Guardianship Code, neither spouse can request the distribution of the common property. It has not been stated or proved that a marriage regime other than the legal regime applies. After the end of the legal regime of community of property, the common property is distributed, this is not decided during the divorce proceedings under Polish law. That termination may take place after the divorce of the parties. A division of an immovable property can be determined in legal proceedings or under an agreement entered into by notarial deed.

4.5.
The division of the communal house is not yet the subject of legal proceedings and an agreement on the house is by no means in the light of the present procedure. Also the divorce has not yet been pronounced. This means that under Polish law the house cannot yet be divided.

4.6.
[Defendant] disputes that [Claimant] has an urgent interest in obtaining a decision nowadays regarding the sale of the communal home. [claimant] has argued that on the basis of article 3: 178 BW it can no longer be bound to a common property and the related joint and several debtorship if it does not wish to do so, but in doing so it overlooks that provision based on article 3: 189 does not apply if the matrimonial community has not yet been dissolved. It has no other interest. Considering what has been considered above, that dissolution is not yet imminent. The claims are therefore premature. This does not result in an exceptionally urgent interest to arrive at an order measure under Dutch law and the claim is therefore dismissed.

4.7.
As this concerns a dispute between spouses, the legal costs will be compensated.

5 Decision
The preliminary relief judge

5.1.
refuses the requested facility,

5.2.
offsets the costs of the proceedings in that each party bears its own costs.

This judgment was rendered by mr. C.M.E. de Koning, judge, assisted by mr. M.A.H. Verburgh and spoken in public on May 1, 2020.

type: CMEdK

coll: MAH