Pronunciation


COURT OF NORTH OF NETHERLANDS
Private Law Department

Location Leeuwarden

case / appeal number: C / 17/170714 / FA RK 19-1566

decision of the single room dated 4 March 2020

on

[the woman] ,

residing in [place of residence],

hereinafter also referred to as the woman,

lawyer mr. M.C. Braak, with office in Groningen,

against

[the man] ,

residing in [place of residence],

hereinafter also referred to as the man,

appeared in person.

1 Proceedings

1.1.
In a petition, the woman has requested the court to grant her replacement permission to order the OCRN, or another Youth Mental Healthcare Agency, to carry out the recommended treatment with medication use, being Ritalin or Lys-Dexamfetamine, with regard to of the minor child of the parties, [name of the minor]. At the hearing, the woman changed her request for the specifically mentioned medication to 'medication that is needed'.

1.2.
The man did not file a statement of defense. He presented oral defense at the hearing.

1.3.
The court has taken note of:

- a letter with an attachment, received on 20 January 2020, from the woman's side;

- an F9 form, received on January 30, 2020, from the women's side.

1.4.
The case was heard in the presence of parties and the woman's lawyer at the hearing on 11 February 2020.

2 Facts

2.1.
Parties have been married to each other. The divorce was registered in the civil registers on April 10, 2017.

2.2.
The marriage of the parties was born on [date of birth] 2011 in [place of birth] [the minor]. Parties have joint authority over [the minor].

2.3.
Parties implement a care scheme.

2.4.
The documents include a letter addressed to the general practitioner from OCRN ​​Jeugd GGZ & dyslexiazorg dated 8 January 2020. In this letter, general remedial educationalist [name] indicated that after evaluation of the trial treatment and additional diagnostics, the classification of [the minor] is adapted. The evaluation at school and the observation show that [the minor] needs a lot of support at school to get to work. Despite a duplication, a learning gap remains. His attention at school quickly weakens. Based on observations and the evaluation at school, conversations with the parents and the evaluation of multiple dyslexia treatment, OCRN ​​concludes that [the minor] has ADHD in combination with dyslexia. OCRN advises starting exploratory discussions about medication in the form of a medication consultation within OCRN ​​and psycho-education for parents aimed at ADHD to be included in the treatment. In addition, OCRN ​​considers it important to regularly evaluate the progress of the school with the school.

3 Scope of Dispute 

3.1.
There is no dispute between the parties that there is a problem with [the minor]. Treatment for [the minor] was sought at the instigation of the school. There is also no dispute between the parties that [the minor] needs help. The man has concerns about the diagnosis of ADHD and the parties do not agree on the drug treatment. The woman has the idea that the husband plays down the problem of [the minor] and that he does not take her seriously in their mutual communication about [the minor].

3.2.
The woman has stated that she does not intend to start with the heaviest medication, but she also does not want to experiment with biological alternatives, as the man would like. [the minor] is not a minor case with his problems, according to the woman. She has already tried everything for [the minor], such as tutoring and another school with a smaller class. [the minor] has concentration problems at school, he is busy and distracted, his task orientation is minimal and he has a learning disability. The school has indicated that it experiences problems with [the minor]. Now that [the minor] spends most of the time with the woman, she has a good idea of ​​his behavior when [the minor] goes to school and leaves school. The woman says that it is not good for the self-image of [the minor] that he cannot go well to school. After all, this is not due to his intelligence, but [the minor] seems to think that it is. The woman believes that something really needs to be done in the field of treatment of [the minor], because he is slipping further and further into school. Because the current interventions have proved insufficient, the OCRN ​​advised treatment with medication. The woman states that the OCRN ​​has explained that [the minor] will then be set on medication with a build-up schedule, which may then be Ritalin or Lys-Dexamfetamine. Parties have received information about this medication. The woman would like to follow a path with the man at the OCRN. They can then be informed about the consequences of medication. However, a medication consultation does not come if the man does not give permission. She wants to talk to the man at the OCRN ​​and then she agrees that the man ultimately decides which medication should be given to [the minor].

The woman's lawyer has stated at the hearing that the OCRN ​​will also take biological alternatives into account, but it is possible that the condition of [the minor] is so serious that the OCRN ​​takes the view that biological alternatives are not sufficient. . She has made it clear that a medication consultation, as advised in the letter of 8 January 2020, can only take place if both parents have given their consent, and that the medication consultation can only be discussed extensively about which medication could be helpful for [the minor ].

3.3.
The man stated at the hearing that he is not against drug treatment in general, but that he wants to be able to carefully consider whether and what medication is needed. He argues that the diagnosis was first ADD and suddenly changed to ADHD during a 10-minute conversation in November 2019. Then he got a, in his opinion, too short reflection period with regard to the medication. He thinks medications like Ritalin and Lys-Dexamfetamine are far too heavy to start with. The (longer) term consequences of this medication are unknown. [the minor] is not a guinea pig. There are all kinds of less drastic alternatives that he believes should be researched and tried first. The man is of the opinion that parties as parents should discuss the treatment with each other, for example with a mediator. The man wants them to make a decision about the medication together. He is open to the medication consultation at the OCRN, but only if the alternatives with biological agents are also discussed. Finally, the man has stated that if there really is no alternative to the heavy drugs, he may need to adjust his view and agree to that medication.

4 Reasons of the Decision

3.4.
The court finds that the parties have joint authority over [the minor]. This means that the medical treatment of the ADHD problems of [the minor] requires the consent of both parents. Now that the man has not yet given his permission, the woman has requested the court under Article 1: 253a, first paragraph, of the Dutch Civil Code to grant her replacement permission for drug treatment.

3.5.
The court considers that it must decide whether granting the replacement consent for the granting of a drug treatment would be of interest to [the minor].

3.6.
The court considers that the submitted investigation report by the OCRN ​​child and youth psychiatrist department of 18 February 2019 shows that it was concluded at that time that there was an unspecified attention deficit disorder in [the minor]. At that time, the criteria for the diagnosis of ADHD were not fully met, but there were clinically significant functional limitations. The aforementioned letter of 8 January 2020 from the OCRN ​​shows that the diagnosis has been adjusted in ADHD in combination with dyslexia. It follows from that letter that, contrary to what the man thinks, an evaluation, investigation and additional diagnostics preceded the changed diagnosis.

3.7.
In the aforementioned letter of 8 January 2020, the OCRN ​​stated that the proposed follow-up is to start exploratory discussions about medication in the form of a medication consultation within OCRN.

3.8.
The court finds that, based on the observations and investigations by OCRN, it is clear that the treatment, as it is currently taking place, is not sufficient. The parties do not disagree on this either. Unlike the man, the woman wants to be started on medication. The court considers that it cannot determine whether and, if so, which medication is in the interest of [the minor], based on what was discussed at the hearing or on the basis of the court documents. The woman has not substantiated the need to start medication at this time. The OCRN ​​letter of 8 January 2020 talks about exploratory conversations about medication in the form of a medication consultation. The district court considers such preliminary discussions to be in the interest of [the minor]. Parties must discuss the options with doctors. The objections of the man and his ideas about alternatives to the heavy medications such as Ritalin and Lys-Dexamfetamine should also be discussed. On the basis of what is discussed, the husband (and the wife as well) must be able to consider what is in the best interest of [the minor] and the parties must discuss together which route they want to follow for [the minor]. The court does not see why, as stated by the woman, exploratory discussions about medication require permission from the man. In addition, the man announced at the hearing that he is willing to discuss the medication, so that no replacement permission needs to be granted. This is different for actually administering and adjusting to concrete medication, but the court understands from the documents and what was discussed at the hearing that this must first be discussed, so that the woman's request is premature. In addition, the man has announced at the hearing that he is open to having to adjust his opinion about the medication on the basis of the conversations to be held about it, after which he will still give his permission for the medication.

3.9.
In view of the foregoing, the court sees no reason to grant the request for granting replacement permission to give the order to carry out the recommended treatment with medication use. There is no concrete advice other than the advice to conduct exploratory discussions about medication in the form of a medication consultation.

3.10.
For the sake of completeness, the court considers that the parties should continue to hold discussions in the interest of [the minor]. At the hearing, the court found that the parties have put forward very reasonable arguments, and that they are able to listen to each other and are open to adjusting their opinion. If desired, they can turn to the Area Team of their municipality to talk to each other under supervision.

5 Decision

The court:

4.1.
rejects the request.

This order was made in Leeuwarden by mr. C. Coster, member of the chamber, also juvenile judge, and pronounced in open court on Wednesday March 4, 2020 in the presence of the registrar.

An appeal can be brought against this decision:

- by the applicants and those to whom a copy of the decision has been provided or sent, within three months of the day of the delivery,

- by other interested parties within three months after service thereof or after the decision has become known to them in another way.

The appeal must be lodged with the registry of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice through a lawyer.