Pronunciation


COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Civil and Tax Law Department

Team III (family and youth law)

Case number: 200.272.624 / 01

Case number court: C / 13/673513 / JE RK 19/944 and C / 13/673942 / JE RK 19/978

Multiple Chamber Order of 10 March 2020 (if brought forward) on

[the father] ,

residing in [place of residence],

applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the father,

lawyer: mr. C.M.E. Schreinemacher in Amsterdam,

and

1 the Child Protection Board,
established in The Hague, location Amsterdam,

defendant on appeal,

further to be called: the council,

2 [the mother],
living at a secret address,

defendant on appeal,

further to be called: the mother,

lawyer: G.G Kempenaars.

Stakeholders included:

- the minor [A] (hereinafter: [Child A]);

- the minor [B] (hereinafter: [Child B]);

- the minor [C] (hereinafter: [Child C]);

- the certified institution Youth Protection Region Amsterdam (hereinafter: the GI).

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the juvenile court judge in Amsterdam (hereinafter: the juvenile court judge) of 22 October 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1
The father appealed on 20 January 2020 to the aforementioned order of 22 October 2019.

2.2
The mother filed a statement of defense on 5 February 2020.

2.3
The following documents were also received at the court:

- a letter from the father of 20 January 2020 with attachments, received on 21 January 2020;

- a letter from the board of January 29, 2020, received on January 30, 2020.

2.4
The oral hearing took place on February 5, 2020. Published are:

- the father, assisted by his lawyer;

- the council, represented by Mr. V. Aelbers;

- the mother, assisted by her lawyer;

- the GI, represented by the family manager.

2 Facts
3.1
From the marriage of the mother and the father (hereinafter also: the parents) were born:

- [child A], [in] 2010 in [place of birth];

- [child B], [in] 2011 in [place of birth];

- [child C], [in] 2013 in [place of birth] (hereinafter also: the children).

The parents exercise joint authority over the children. The children live with the mother.

3.2
By order of the juvenile court judge of October 10, 2019, the children have been provisionally placed under the supervision of the GI until January 10, 2020. In addition, the request for the granting of an authorization for home placement with regard to the children was rejected.

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1
The contested decision maintained the provisional supervision, as stated in the aforementioned decision of 10 October 2019, and the children were placed under the supervision of the GI for one year, from 22 October 2020, from 22 October 2019.

4.2
The father requests that the contested decision, which placed the supervision order until 22 October 2020, be set aside.

4.3
The Council requests that the contested decision be ratified.

4.4
The mother requests that the contested decision be ratified.

4 Reasons of the Decision
5.1
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), a judge can place a minor under the supervision of a certified institution if that minor grows up in such a way that he is seriously threatened in his development, and:

the care that is necessary in connection with the removal of the threat for the minor or for his parents or the parent who exercises authority, is not or insufficiently accepted by these, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise the authority within a term that is considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor, the responsibility for the care and upbringing, referred to in Section 1: 247 (2) of the Dutch Civil Code. , be able to wear.

5.2
The father argues that the children were wrongly placed under supervision, to which he argues, among other things, the following. Although it is stated otherwise in the contested decision, he also disagreed with the supervision at first instance. The father denies that there has been persistent domestic violence, that he would like to take the children to Afghanistan or America and that the mother is not sufficiently resistant. Also, the children are not afraid of him and they just want to associate with their father. Both the father and the mother have always been willing to accept voluntary assistance and research into (any treatment of) the children. So there are no grounds for a supervision order. Finally, the supervision has only been harmful because the children have not been to school for three months, no longer live in their familiar environment and there is still no interaction between the father and the children.

5.3
At the hearing, the council raised an appeal. In short, the Council is of the opinion that a supervision order is necessary. The children are vulnerable and have been through a lot. That is why it is necessary for a third party to look at what the children need. This also makes it important during the moments of interaction that the supervisor knows what the father and the children are talking about. In addition, this will help all parties to gain confidence in each other. It is important that the children also have contact with their father and it is up to the parents to give substance to the parental responsibility they have. Now that the safety that is spoken in Dutch during the visits is important, it is important that the father cooperates and works together with the GI.

5.4
The mother takes the view that the children have been rightly supervised, despite her concerns about their implementation so far. According to the mother, persistent domestic violence and its negative effect on children have proven satisfactory, whereby the parents are unable to communicate with each other and the forced assistance is still difficult. The man does not act in the best interest of the children by staying in the marital home himself. In addition, he does not comply with the safety agreements. He speaks negatively about others, discusses adult matters with the children, makes promises he does not keep and refuses to speak Dutch with the children. As a result, only telephone contact between the children and the man currently takes place, with the mother having to supervise. The children are very confused, want to know where they stand and miss their father. Finally, the mother intends to file a petition for divorce with the court, as well as to initiate a preliminary injunction procedure under which she will request the provisional use of the matrimonial home.

5.5
The GI explained the following at the appeal hearing. At first there was a lot of resistance from [child A], but now he has calmed down. [child B] has a lot of questions about why she can't go back home, her old school and friends. [child C] is calmer and lets it flow over him. As a result of Altra's emergency assistance, three follow-up programs are advised: intensive outpatient counseling, EMDR therapy for the children and Signs of Safety (including Words and Pictures). The children are now staying with a mother at a shelter and have been going to (another) school since the beginning of January. When they can safely return to the matrimonial home, which has hitherto not been possible due to the changing attitude of the father, they can always return to their old school. The relationship between the father and the children can be started quickly, but it is important to keep in mind that no adult matters are discussed with the children. That is why the condition is set that the father speaks Dutch and remains calm while dealing with the children, according to the GI.

5.6
The court considers as follows.

The documents in the file and the appellate case revealed that family care has been involved for many years, including the GI since October 2016, in connection with ongoing reports of verbal and physical domestic violence in front of the children . A screening by Mentrum shows that the father has suspicions of paranoid problems, delusions, alcohol and cannabis abuse. After the father said after returning (again) from a temporary restraining order to return home and to take the children abroad, the council urgently opened an investigation. This has shown that the children appear anxious, traumatized, and burdened with constant tensions and escalations between parents. Since October 10, 2019, the children have been supervised by the GI. It turned out that the mother then went to a shelter with the children and took steps to start the divorce. Two visits took place between the father and the children, after which the contact was stopped because the father did not comply with the safety agreements. Since then there has only been telephone contact.

5.7
In view of the above, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that there is (still) a serious threat to the development of the children. The children grew up in an unsafe home situation because of long-term verbal and physical domestic violence between the parents. There are serious concerns about the consequences for children's development, now and in the longer term. Despite years of involvement of the relief workers, the concerns remain. Furthermore, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that assistance in the forced context is necessary, now that it has become apparent that the father, in particular, does not sufficiently accept the care required in order to remove the aforementioned development threats. The children have been through a lot and it is important that this is investigated further and that treatment is started. They also miss their father, friends and old school. The court sees, just like the GI, the mother and the council, the necessity and importance of interaction between the man and the children. The GI has set conditions to ensure that access is safe for children and that they are not burdened with adult problems. With the GI, the court considers it important that the man complies with these conditions, including speaking the Dutch language during intercourse. In doing so, the Court of Appeal also takes into account that it appeared at the hearing on appeal that the man speaks good Dutch. In addition, the GI has indicated that the relationship can be continued in the very short term if the man is willing to comply with the conditions. In the opinion of the court it has been found satisfactory that the man will not be willing to do this in an exclusively voluntary framework. The Court of Appeal therefore considers that the grounds for the supervision of the children were present at the time of the contested decision and are still present today. The court will therefore ratify the contested decision.

5.8
This leads to the next decision.

5 Decision

The Council:

ratifies the order of which appeal, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court;

dismisses the appeal more or differently requested on appeal.

This decision was made by mrs. M.T. Hoogland, A.R. Sturhoofd and J.F. Miedema, in the presence of Mr. J. van den Wildenberg as Clerk, and was publicly pronounced on March 10, 2020 by the oldest councilor.