Pronunciation


Rotterdam District Court
Team family

case number / appeal number: C / 10/585829 / FA RK 19-9780

Ordinance of 19 March 2020 on parental authority and the maintenance contribution

in the case of:

[mother's name], the mother,

residing in [mother's place of residence], [mother's address],

lawyer mr. W.A. Berghuis in Dordrecht,

against

[father's name], the father,

residing in [father's place of residence], [father's address].

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

- the petition with attachments from the mother, received on 14 November 2019.

1.2.
The oral hearing of the case took place on March 12, 2020. The following appeared:

the mother, assisted by her lawyer;

the father;

the Rotterdam-Dordrecht Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Council), represented by [name of representative 1];

the certified West Youth Protection Agency (hereinafter: JBW), represented by [name of representative 2].

2 Facts
2.1.
The marriage of the parties was dissolved on August 27, 2015 by registration of the divorce decision of July 31, 2015 in the registers of civil status.

2.2.
Parties are the parents of the minor:

[name of minor], born on [date of birth of minor] 2009 in [place of birth of minor].

2.3.
Parental authority over the minor is exercised jointly by the parents.

2.4.
The parties drew up a parenting plan on 8 July 2015.

2.5.
By order of this court of December 16, 2016, with an amendment to the order of July 31, 2015 and the parenting plan included therein, a care scheme was established as follows:

[name of minor] stays with the father every two weeks from Friday evening 7:00 PM (after dinner with the mother) to Monday morning, with the father collecting [name of minor] from the mother on Friday and [name of minor] Monday brings to school;

during the stay with the father, the father himself ensures that he has clothing for [name of minor];

After the transfer from the family situation with the mother to the family situation with the father, the father will send the mother a Whatsapp message with a photo of [name of minor] for reassurance a while after the transfer.

In addition, an arrangement for the holidays and public holidays was determined.

2.6.
By order of the court of Rotterdam of March 22, 2019, the minor was placed under the supervision of JBW for a period of nine months. On December 13, 2019, the supervision was extended to December 22, 2020.

3 Appeal
3.1.
Authority

3.1.1.
The mother requests that the authority over [name of minor] be left to her alone.

3.1.2.
The father has a motivated defense.

4 Reasons of the Decision

3.1.3.
Pursuant to Section 1: 253n of the Dutch Civil Code, the joint authority can be terminated in changed circumstances since the commencement of the joint authority or if the decision to joint authority is based on incorrect or incomplete information. If one of these cases occurs, it will then have to be assessed whether there is reason for termination of the joint parental authority. Applicable is the criterion stated in Article 1: 251a of the Dutch Civil Code that there is an unacceptable risk that a child may become stuck or lost between the parents and that it cannot be expected that this will improve sufficiently in the foreseeable future or that changes in authority is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child. If this occurs, the court will determine which of the parents will now have custody of the minor.

3.1.4.
The basic premise of the aforementioned article is that the parents will in principle be / will be jointly charged with parental authority after the divorce. In general, it is therefore assumed that it is in the best interests of the child that the non-caregiving parent is also charged with custody.

Joint custody requires that the parents are in fact able to exercise proper joint custody and that they are able to take joint decisions of any importance regarding the minor, or at least be able to agree in advance on situations surrounding the minor. minor can occur in such a way that the minor will not get stuck or lost between his parents. The lack of good communication does not necessarily mean deviating from the legal principle.

3.1.5.
Parties are no longer in the situation shortly after their divorce. The parties were separated on 18 December 2012 and have therefore been separated for eight years.

The council, Youth Protection and also parties, recognize that it would be good for [name of minor] if the father remains in charge of authority, if this means that the parties share their concerns about the development of [name of minor], with discuss each other and jointly determine a vision. During the oral hearing, however, the father stated that the parties were unable to enter into a conversation together. Mediation initiated has not improved this either. The father disagrees that the mother has sole authority. He responded only once too late to a request from the mother to give his consent for treatment of [name of minor] because he first wanted more information. For the future, the father is willing to cooperate and grant his permission. In addition, he wants to remain in custody because he wants to continue to bear responsibility for [name of minor] as a parent. However, the father sees no possibility to bear the responsibility that goes with it, to consult with the other parent. He declares that he is fed up with the eternal struggle with the mother and declares that, even after the court has told the father that joint custody does require this, he no longer wishes to consult with the mother about [name of minor].

It follows from this in court that the parties are unable to take joint decisions of any importance regarding [name of minor] and that they are at least unable to make prior agreements about situations that may arise around [name of minor]. The court will therefore decide to end joint authority. This does not mean implicitly determining who is right in the eight-year battle. Nor does this mean that one parent is a better parent than the other. The court will entrust the mother with the one-headed authority, because the mother requests unilateral authority and the father does not, and because the mother is the main carer of [name of minor].

3.2.
Maintenance fee

3.2.1.
The mother requests an amendment to the aforementioned decision of 31 July 2015 and the parenting plan of 8 July 2015 that forms part thereof, in that the

the contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the minor (hereinafter referred to as the 'child contribution') agreed in that parenting plan as of the date of submission of the petition, 14 November 2019, is set at an amount of € 220 per month.

The mother states that there is a change of circumstances because the care scheme as determined in the order of

December 16, 2016. In the May holiday of 2019, [name of minor] was last with the father. In the determination of the child contribution, a care discount was taken into account at the time, which no longer applies.

3.2.2.
The father does not defend himself against this request, but notes that if there is interaction again in the future, what both parties want, the contribution must be adjusted again. The parties agreed in the parenting plan that the father would pay a child's contribution of € 160 per month. After indexation, the father paid in 2019

€ 171 per month. If there is again a weekend arrangement as stipulated in the decision of December 16, 2016, the father believes that the contribution of € 171 per month should apply again. The mother agrees.

3.2.3.
The court will decide as parties have agreed.

3.3.
Litigation costs

3.3.1.
In view of the nature of the procedure, the court decides that each of the parties bears its own costs.

5 Decision

The court:

4.1.
ends joint custody and determines that the authority over [name of minor] will in future be vested in the mother;

4.2.
amends the decision of the District Court of Rotterdam of 31 July 2015 and the covenant and parental plan that form part thereof, in that the child contribution imposed on the father as of 14 November 2019 is determined at € 220 per month and as soon as [name minor] who resides every two weeks from Friday evening 19.00 (after dinner with the mother) to Monday morning to school with the father, is determined at € 171 per month;

4.3.
declares this decision enforceable with stock;

4.4.
compensates the costs of proceedings in such a way that each party bears its own costs;

4.5.
rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mr. J.J. Klomp, judge, also children's judge, and pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar M.I.J. on the Roo

March 19, 2020.

Insofar as this decision contains one or more final decisions, an appeal can be lodged against this decision with the Hague Court of Appeal. The appeal can only be lodged by a lawyer.

Appeals must be lodged by the applicant and those to whom a copy of the decision has been provided or sent within three months of the date of the decision. For other interested parties, a period of three months after service of the decision or after the decision has otherwise become known to them to appeal.