Pronunciation


COURT OF GELDERLAND
Family and youth law

Meeting place Zutphen

Case number (s): 353393 FZ RK 19-1263 and 360382 FZ RK 19-2705

decision of the single chamber of civil matters of 20 February 2020

in the case of:

[applicant],

residing in [place],

applicant, hereinafter referred to as the man,

lawyer: mr. C.J. Rouwet in Lichtenvoorde,

against

[defendant],

residing in [place],

defendant, hereinafter referred to as woman,

lawyer: mr. R. Amato in Apeldoorn.

1 Proceedings

1.1.
This course is evident from:

the petition with its attachment, received on 10 May 2019;

the writ of service of 17 May 2019;

the defense also independently counter-request, received on July 25, 2019;

the defense to the independent request also additional requests with annexes, received on 18 September 2019;

the journal message with attachments of mr. Rouwet of 24 January 2020;

the journal message with attachments of Mr. Amato of January 27, 2020;

the journal message with attachments of mr. Rouwet of 31 January 2020.

1.2.
Both parties, assisted by their lawyers, heard at the hearing on 5 February 2020.

2 Facts
2.1.
The man has Dutch and the woman Irish nationality. They were married on [date] in [place] (Ireland).

3 Appeal
3.1.
The man requests the court by order, as far as practicable, if possible, to deliver a divorce between the parties;

3.2.
The woman requests, after supplementing, the court by order, where practicable from stock:

pronounce the divorce;

issue a declaration of the right that no matrimonial community has arisen;

declare the man inadmissible in his requests for distribution;

in the alternative, in case the court finds that the husband is received in his additional requests based on “clean provision”, deny him for an insufficient factual basis, or reject it and allocate an amount to the woman of € 50,000 for the title of “clean provision”;

to determine that the husband will have to pay an amount of € 895 in partner maintenance monthly to the woman in advance.

3.3.
The husband requests the court (after supplement) by decision, where practicable in stock, to reject the wife's request under point b) and, by additional request, to determine that:

the woman to the man must pay half of the owner's costs paid by the man (including municipal taxes, home insurance, costs of maintenance / repairs of the house and garden and the purchase of materials for this, costs incurred in connection with the sale / relocation ) regarding the home in [city] (Germany) at the [address] for the period from October 1, 2013 up to and including April 2019, being an amount of € 5,665.31, or an amount to be determined and / or to be decided which the court considers reasonable in good justice;

that the woman should pay the man half of the user charges paid by the man (including gas / water / electricity / telephone / internet / television) for the house in [place] (Germany) at the [address] for the period from May 1, 2018 up to and including April 2019, being an amount of € 899.20, or determining an amount and / or taking a decision that the court deems reasonable in good justice.

a statement of entitlement is made, stating that the woman is jointly responsible for the payment of the tax assessments / debts for the years 2015 to 2018 that are registered in the husband's name;

The woman must pay half of the tax assessments received in the name of the man during the years 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, being an amount of (estimated) € 40,511.00 to the man, or to determine an amount that the court in good justice deems reasonable.

3.4.
Insofar as it is relevant to the assessment, the positions of the parties are discussed in more detail below.

4 Reasons of the Decision
divorce

4.1.
Pursuant to Article 3 of EC Regulation 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003, the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the request for divorce, now

the spouses are habitually resident in the Netherlands.

4.2.
Pursuant to Article 10:56, paragraph 1, of the Dutch Civil Code, Dutch law determines whether the dissolution of the marriage or legal separation can be pronounced and on what grounds.

4.3.
Now that the woman does not dispute that the marriage has been permanently disrupted, the request for award is open.

spousal maintenance

4.4.
The parties disagree on the law applicable to a woman's request for a contribution towards the cost of her living.

4.5.
Now that the woman lives in the Netherlands, the Dutch court has jurisdiction over the maintenance claim under Article 3 of the Alimony Regulation (Council Regulation (EC) No 4/2009 of 18 December 2008).

4.6.
Pursuant to Article 3 of the Protocol on the law applicable to maintenance obligations of 23 November 2007, the court will apply Dutch law, because the maintenance creditor is habitually resident in the Netherlands.

4.7.
The dispute is whether the woman needs a contribution towards the cost of living. The woman states that, looking at the income of the husband and wife during the marriage, she needs an amount of € 4,500 net per month. The man should provide for this, because the woman is the financially weaker party under Irish law and there is "wrong" behavior on the part of the man that can be considered "rude and clear". At the hearing, the woman acknowledged that she has an obligation to make an effort to provide for her own living as much as possible. She says she is doing her best, but she is unable to fully support herself. In any case, the man must be considered able to pay € 895 to the woman every month, he has also paid this amount to the woman every month for a long time.

4.8.
The man defends the woman's request. Primarily, the man points out that the woman has not substantiated her need and that the request should therefore already be rejected. Nor is there any question of need in the man's opinion. The parties have actually been separated since 2013 and the woman has had every opportunity to meet any need herself. It is up to the woman to demonstrate what she has done to generate (more) income. However, she failed to do so. In the alternative, the man argues that he has no capacity to pay any contribution. Another factor is that the man's health is not good and that he will be operated on at the end of March. After that he will probably not be able to work in his one-man business for several months. In August 2020, the man will reach retirement age.

4.9.
The court considers this as follows. Shortly before the hearing, the woman made a request for a contribution towards the cost of her living. She has not substantiated her need in any way, other than to state that it amounts to € 4,500 net per month. Contrary to the man's dispute, she has not made clear what this need consists of and what it is based on. The court is of the opinion that it would have been in the woman's path to make this clear and, failing that, considers that her request for a contribution towards the cost of her living should be rejected. For the sake of completeness, the court also notes that, in the event that there was a sufficiently substantiated need, the woman has also not made clear why she was unable to meet that need herself and what she has done to that end.

matrimonial property settlement

4.10.
This court has jurisdiction to hear requests relating to the property settlement of the marriage pursuant to Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) no. 2016/1103/2003 of 24 June 2016.

4.11.
The law applicable to the property settlement of the marriage is determined by the 1978 Hague Matrimonial Property Convention. Pursuant to Article 4 (1) of this Convention, the matrimonial property regime of the parties is governed by Irish law, since after their marriage the parties have their first common habitual residence in Have established Ireland.

4.12.
The court considers that the principle of the Irish legal system is a separation of property, provided that in the event of a marriage being dissolved, this property separation may be relativized by the court in the sense that it may take certain measures regarding the parties' assets. hit. Pursuant to section 14 of the Irish family law (divorce) act 1996, the judge may impose a so-called property adjustment order. In deciding whether the judge makes such a provision and what it reads, he must take account of the circumstances of the case under section 20. In doing so, he must in particular (this is a non-exhaustive list) take into account the facts and circumstances referred to in that article. The judge has discretion in this regard, taking into account all the factors of the case, whereby he must assess his relevance and weight in the light of the individual case. The judge must account for this. The court thus has the option to adjust the ownership relationships of the individual spouses, achieving an outcome that is reasonable given the circumstances of the case.

4.13.
The court will then discuss the various requests of the parties in application of the above.

user charges and owner's charges for the former matrimonial home

4.14.
The husband requests that the wife pay half of the user charges paid (for the period 1 May 2018 to April 2019) and owner's expenses (for the period 1 October 2013 to April 2019) for the marital home to meet him. To this end, he argues that, although there are separate assets under Irish law, the former matrimonial home was communal. The woman has benefited from the proceeds of the marital home and must also contribute to the costs of the marital home paid by him.

4.15.
The woman has a defense against this. It claims that it is not obliged to pay half of those costs. With regard to user charges, it submits that it has also paid costs and that it no longer owes it to the man. With regard to the owner's costs, the woman argues that although the parties together owned the house, the man stayed in the house and therefore had to pay those costs.

4.16.
The court considers this as follows. It is not disputed that the husband and wife together owned the matrimonial home in Germany, which has since been sold. Nor is it in dispute that the man continued to live in the house after the woman left the house in 2013 to 2018. The proceeds from the sale of the house amounted to € 310,000, of which both parties have now received half.

4.17.
With regard to the user charges paid by the man, the court notes that the woman stated that she also paid certain charges during the period when the man had already left the house. The man has not contested this. Therefore, the court is of the opinion that these costs can be offset by each other and that the man has no user charges to claim from the woman. The man's request is therefore rejected.

4.18.
With regard to the owner's fees paid by the husband, the court notes the following. It is not disputed that the man has paid these costs. The amount has not been disputed by the woman either. The court considers that these costs are in principle to be borne by both parties, in view of the ownership relationship between the parties. The next question is whether the court should deviate from the ownership relationship in this case on the basis of the so-called "property adjustment order". In accordance with section 20, all circumstances must be involved and, in short, worked towards a reasonable outcome.

4.19.
The court considers relevant in this case that the documents submitted and the proceedings at the hearing showed that during the marriage the parties had a division of roles in which the husband was the breadwinner and the wife mainly took care of the children. She worked incidentally. During the marriage, the husband therefore mainly paid the fixed costs. Even after the parties have actually split up, the man has continued to pay these costs. After the house was sold, the woman did share in the proceeds thereof, both parties received an amount of € 155,000. In addition, if not in dispute, the man has paid a significant contribution to the woman for years, including rent of € 895 per month, a contribution for both children and a contribution for the gas, water and light that the woman had to pay for her house in [place]. At the same time, it appeared at the hearing that the woman did generate income from 2011 onwards. Since the woman appeals to the property adjustment order, the court considers that it is up to her to demonstrate that in this case it is unreasonable that she should pay half of the owner's costs to the man and that therefore it is necessary to deviate from the ownership relationship. The court is of the opinion that the woman has insufficiently contributed to this and is of the opinion that it is not reasonable that, in addition to paying substantial costs to the woman in any event over the period 2013 to 2017, the man is also not reasonable. owner's costs of the matrimonial home must be paid. In view of this, the court sees no reason to deviate from the ownership relationship and the man's request will be granted, in the sense that the woman must pay the man an amount of € 5,665.31.

tax debts for 2015 through 2018

4.20.
The man states that he still has to pay tax over the years 2015 to 2018. He was unable to pay this earlier, because he paid all fixed costs and also financially supported the woman and the children. Based on a property adjustment order, the woman has to pay half of this to him.

4.21.
The woman has a defense against this. It is the man's behavior that these tax debts have not yet been paid and it must therefore be for his own account. Moreover, the man has insufficiently substantiated the tax debts.

4.22.
The court considers this as follows. As previously considered, Irish law has a separate system of goods. In principle, therefore, the tax debts are for the account of the man. After all, the documents submitted by the man are to his name. The court is of the opinion that the man has insufficiently argued and substantiated to deviate from the separate system of goods on the basis of a property adjustment order. The man's request will therefore be rejected.

woman's request for € 50,000

4.23.
Finally, the woman has requested the court to determine on the basis of a property adjustment order that the man must pay her an amount of € 50,000. She argues that she is the weaker party financially and that it is customary under Irish law for her to be compensated. The woman points out that although both parties have received € 155,000 after the marital home has been sold, she must use her share to buy a house, while the man has a rental home and therefore has free access to his money. The woman also points out - in her eyes - the bad behavior of the man. She believes that she is entitled to an amount of € 50,000 to compensate for the situation in which she ended up after the divorce.

4.24.
The man puts up a defense against this. He argues that the woman's request is insufficiently substantiated and that the amount has been taken completely out of the blue. For example, the woman has not presented a statement of assets that would show that she is in a weaker financial position. Her request should therefore be rejected.

4.25.
The court considers this as follows. The court agrees with the man that the woman has insufficiently substantiated why she should receive an amount of € 50,000 from the man on the basis of a property adjustment order. She has not made it clear that her own financial position is worse than that of the man. After all, she has not given any insight into her own capital position or made a comparison with the man's capital position. As a result, it is not possible for the court to assess whether there is such an inequality that should lead to the woman being compensated. The woman has also provided insufficient insight into her own earning capacity. In any case, it turned out at the hearing that the man has almost reached retirement age and will not be able to work, or work less, in the coming period due to his health. The statement of the woman that the man can use the released proceeds of the house "freely" because he rents a house, while she should use this amount for the purchase of a house, does not change that. After all, that says nothing about the capital position of the parties. Moreover, the man will in all likelihood also have to pay a considerable amount to the tax authorities. The woman's request is rejected by the court.

declaration of entitlement

4.26.
The court rejects the woman's request to issue a statement that the marriage has not started. The woman no longer has an interest in this request, as the court has already accepted it and it follows from Irish law that it is not a community.

5 Decision
The court:

5.1.
pronounces a divorce between the parties, who were married on [date] at [place] (Ireland);

5.2.
stipulates that the wife must pay an amount of € 5,665.31 to the husband in the context of the matrimonial property settlement;

5.3.
rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mr. A.L.M. Steinebach-de Wit, judge, in the presence of Mr. N. Postema, Registrar, and delivered in public on February 20, 2020.