Pronunciation


SUPREME COURT OF THE NETHERLANDS

CIVIL ROOM

Number 18/02469

Date March 13, 2020

JUDGMENT

In the case of

[claimant], residing in [place of residence],

Claimant to cassation,

hereinafter: [Claimant],

lawyer: H.J.W. Alt,

against

BUREAU INTEGRITEIT B.V., established in Amersfoort, with offices in Hoogland,

DEFENDANT in cassation,

hereinafter: BING,

lawyer: J.H.M. from Swaaij.

1 Proceedings

For the course of the proceedings in factual bodies, the Supreme Court refers to:

a.the judgments in case C / 16/405914 / HA ZA 15-1002 of the Central Netherlands court of 13 July 2016 and 12 July 2017;

b. the judgment in case 200.227.136 of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden court of appeal of 6 March 2018.

[Plaintiff] has appealed against the judgment of the court. BING has lodged a statement of opposition.

The case was explained to the parties by their lawyers, for [claimant] also by W.A. Jacobs and for BING partly by J.M. Moorman.

The Opinion of Advocate General E.B. Rank-Berenschot seeks destruction and referral.

BING's lawyer responded to that conclusion in writing.

2 Facts
2.1
The following can be assumed in cassation.

(i) [claimant] was in the past mayor of the municipality [place].

(ii) The municipal council of that municipality has instructed BING, a research agency in the area of ​​public administration integrity, to investigate, among other things, possible shortcomings in the professional conduct of [claimant].

(iii) In its report, BING reported its findings in seventeen files examined. In several of those files, BING concluded that [claimant] acted in violation of the code of conduct applicable to her as a director in the field of care, independence and reliability.

(iv) [Claimant] was unable to agree with the report and the manner in which it was prepared. She has filed a complaint about this with the Audit Chamber against the chartered accountant who conducted the investigation for BING. The Audit Chamber declared the complaint unfounded.

(v) As a result of newspaper articles about the case, BING has published on its website a statement on the manner in which the report was drawn up and on the decision of the Audit Chamber.

(vi) [claimant] appealed against the judgment of the Accountants Chamber to the Appeals Tribunal for Business (hereinafter: CBb). The CBb has declared a number of parts of [the plaintiff's] complaint as well-founded and imposed the measure of reprimand on the registered accountant concerned.

(vii) A few months after the CBb's ruling, following a television program that focused on the CBb's ruling and interviewed [Claimant], BING posted a statement on its website responding to that broadcast .

(viii) [Claimant] has sought interim relief for rectification of the statements referred to above under (v) and (vii) on the BING website. This claim was dismissed by the preliminary relief judge because, in short, the statements were not judged incorrectly or needlessly offensive.

(ix) The day after the summary judgment, BING posted on its website a statement about the summary judgment.

3 Appeal
2.2
In this case, [claimant], represented by Mr. Van Hardenbroek as a lawyer, claims that BING is ordered to pay damages (hereinafter also: the claim for damages) and to remove and rectify the messages on its website (hereinafter also: the claim for rectification) . To this end, it claims that BING has acted unlawfully towards it by carelessly compiling and publishing the report, as well as by posting the messages on the BING website.

2.3.1
[Claimant] was declared bankrupt during the proceedings at first instance.

2.3.2
After the procedure was suspended at the request of BING, the following is noted as “Plaintiff's statement” in the journal: “The bankruptcy trustee takes over, v Hardenbr. remains adv ”.

2.3.3
[Claimant] and (a representative of) the bankruptcy trustee both appeared on a court of appeal ordered by the court. In the head of the official report drawn up during the hearing, the curator is mentioned in his capacity as “claimant”, with Mr. Van Hardenbroek as lawyer. Underneath it is stated: "Parties will hereinafter be referred to as [claimant], BING and Municipality (..)".

In its final judgment, in the head of which the curator, like the official report, is mentioned as “claimant” with mr. Van Hardenbroek as lawyer, the court dismissed the claims.

2.4.1
[Claimant], represented by Mr. Van Hardenbroek, appealed against the final judgment. The curator has not brought an appeal. Before a statement of appeal was lodged, the Court of Appeal gave [Claimant] and BING the opportunity to comment on the admissibility of [Claimant].

2.4.2
After the exchange of documents, the court declared [claimant] inadmissible in its appeal. To this end, after an explanation of the system of Art. 25 and 27 Fw (in legal grounds 3.3 and 3.4), summarized as follows.

The legal claims brought by [claimant] relate to the rights and obligations of the estate. In accordance with the provisions of art. 27 Fw requested BING to suspend the proceedings at first instance and called on the bankruptcy trustee to take over the proceedings. The bankruptcy trustee complied with this summons and took over the proceedings without reservation or restriction. No distinction has been made between the compensation claim and the rectification claim. [Claimant] did not take the view at first instance that part of the proceedings were not eligible for takeover by the liquidator. Her lawyer has indicated without reservation or restriction that she will continue to deal with the case before the curator (and therefore apparently no longer for [claimant]). The official report of the bankruptcy of the parties has been drawn up as the claimant in the name of the curator and (a representative of) the curator has appeared at the hearing. The final judgment was also only referred to the name of the curator. From all this, the court infers that the bankruptcy trustee has taken over the procedure with regard to both claims. (ground 3.5)

The foregoing does not alter the fact that [claimant] conducts the procedure for addition outside the estate and that the claim for rectification relates to her honor and good reputation. The claim for compensation and the claim for rectification are based on the same factual basis. Both claims also serve for compensation as referred to in section 6.1.10 of the Dutch Civil Code, in money, respectively, in a form other than money. Moreover, the rectification claim also serves to prevent further financial damage. The rectification claim can therefore not be regarded as a purely personal claim of [claimant], but is a claim that concerns (co-) rights of the estate and in which the estate (also) has an interest. In addition, insofar as the rectification claim does not already fall directly into bankruptcy property, the compensation claim and the rectification claim and the facts on which they are based are so much in line with each other, that in this case the distinction between a a claim that does and does not (only) concern the estate, is not in accordance with the purpose and purport of art. 25-29 Fw. The nature of the claim for rectification therefore does not prevent the bankruptcy trustee from taking over the entire procedure. (legal ground 3.6)

Because the bankruptcy trustee has taken over the entire procedure, [claimant] has been brought out of the proceedings and she is no longer a party to the proceedings. In principle, only those who were parties to the previous instance can lodge an appeal (Section 332 DCCP). This means that [claimant] is not authorized to appeal against the judgment given in the name of the trustee. (ground 3.7)

4 Reasons of the Decision
3.1
Sections 2.1.2 to 2.1.9 of the plea are mainly directed against the judgment of the Court of Appeal in para. 3.6 that the nature of the claim for rectification does not prevent the liquidator from taking over the entire procedure. According to these parts, the Court of Appeal has denied that the claim for rectification relates to a supremely personal right of [claimant], namely the right to protection of her honor and good name. That right does not belong to the bankruptcy estate, so that the rectification claim cannot be taken over by the curator. The foregoing cannot alter the fact that the claim for rectification is based on the same factual basis as the claim for compensation, that rectification is also regarded as a form of compensation, or that the rectification can also serve to prevent further financial loss. Distinguishing between the two legal claims, however much they may be intertwined, is in accordance with the aim and intent of Art. 25-29 Fw.

3.2.1
Art. 27 paragraph 1 Fw in connection with art. 25 paragraph 1 Fw implies that if at the time of the declaration of bankruptcy a legal action is instituted that has been brought by the bankrupt and that has the subject of a right belonging to the bankrupt estate, the defendant can request suspension of the proceedings and the curator can summon the take over the proceedings. Taking over the proceedings by the curator has the legal effect that he becomes a party to the proceedings instead of the bankrupt and that the bankrupt is placed outside the proceedings (Section 27 (3) of the Fw).

According to art. 25 paragraph 1 of the Fw, this regulation does not apply to legal claims that have the subject of a non-estate right. The bankruptcy trustee is therefore not authorized to take over these legal claims. If the admission or refusal of such legal claim is indirectly of interest to the estate, the curator may, if necessary, defend the interests of the estate by adding or intervening in the proceedings conducted by the bankrupt.

3.2.2
To be able to assume that a legal claim has the subject of a right belonging to the bankrupt estate as referred to in art. 25 paragraph 1 Fw, it is not sufficient that the estate is in some way affected by the admission or rejection of that claim. These must be claims in which capital interests are in dispute. In legal history, the claim for divorce has been cited in this regard as an example of a claim that, because it deals with the personal status of the bankrupt, undoubtedly remains within the jurisdiction of the bankrupt, even though its allocation will usually have financial consequences. for the estate.

When the bankrupt has brought several legal actions, it depends on the nature of each claim whether or not it falls within the scope of application of art. 25 and 27 Fw falls. This also applies if the legal claims are based on the same factual basis and the assessment thereof is an extension of each other.

Answering whether a particular claim falls under the scope of Art. 25 and 27 of the Fw, may also require a factual assessment, if necessary, which must be carried out on the basis of the provisions of art. 25 Fw included a measure of whether the claim is the subject of a right belonging to the bankrupt estate.

3.2.3
The court has in rov. 3.6 taken as the factual principle that the rectification claim instituted by [claimant] refers to her honor and good reputation. This means that this claim has a highly personal character, and that [claimant] as a bankrupt should therefore be able to determine for himself whether and how protection or restoration of her honor and good name will be pursued. The claim for rectification by [claimant] does not relate to the rights and obligations of the estate. That allocation of the rectification claim could also have consequences for the estate, is not sufficient for the opinion that the claim by art. 27 Fw is controlled (see above in 3.2.1-3.2.2). Furthermore, it is not decisive in this respect that rectification can also be regarded as a form of compensation other than in money.

3.2.4
The foregoing leads to the conclusion that the claim for rectification brought by [claimant] cannot be regarded as a legal claim within the meaning of art. 27 Fw, and that the receiver was therefore not authorized to take over that legal claim. The complaints of sections 2.1.2 to 2.1.9 aimed at this are therefore well-founded.

3.3.1
However, the foregoing cannot lead to cassation, now that the court's judgments under attack in attacked. 3.6 not bearing his decision that [claimant] is inadmissible on appeal. To this end, the following is considered.

3.3.2
The court has in rov. 3.5 established:

- that the curator has taken over the proceedings “without reservation or restriction”;

- that “no distinction has been made” between the compensation claim and the rectification claim;

- that [claimant] did not take the view at first instance that part of the proceedings were ineligible to be taken over by the liquidator;

- that the [plaintiff's lawyer] has indicated “without reservation or limitation” that he will continue to deal with the case before the liquidator and thus (according to the court) “apparently no longer for [plaintiff]”;

- that the official report of the appearance of the parties in the name of the curator has been drawn up as the claimant and that a representative of the curator has appeared at the hearing;

- and that the final judgment was also issued only in the name of the curator.

On the basis of all this, the court in rov. 3.5 concluded that the bankruptcy trustee has taken over the entire procedure with regard to both claims.

All this means, according to the Court of Appeal, that the bankruptcy trustee, known to (the lawyer of) [claimant] and without objection from that side, has in fact taken over the entire procedure, including the claim for rectification. Furthermore, as a matter of determination of the Court of Appeal, it was decided that the Court, also known to (the lawyer of) [Claimant], assumed that the receiver had taken over both of the claims in dispute and that [Claimant] no longer was a litigation party.

Parts 2.2 - 2.2.2 challenge these findings in vain. The aforementioned findings are factual in nature, because they refer to the way in which the receiver and the court acted. In the light of the established facts (see 2.3.2 and 2.3.3 above), these findings are not incomprehensible. The fact that [claimant] is mentioned as one of the 'parties' in the official report of the appeal does not change that. Contrary to section 2.2.2, the fact that Mr Van Hardenbroek continued to act as a lawyer does not make the findings of the Court of Appeal (including the determination that he further handled the case before the curator and no longer for [claimant]). incomprehensible; This is all the more so in the light of the documents in the proceedings, including the letter to the court of mr. Van Hardenbroek mentioned in the judgment of the court under 1.1, in which he states that he “on behalf of mr C. van den Bergh in his capacity of bankruptcy trustee in the bankruptcy of Ms (…) [claimant] ”made comments in connection with the official report of the notice of the parties.

3.3.3
In view of what has been considered in 3.3.2 above, it must therefore be the starting point that the curator, although not authorized to do so, has taken over the entire proceedings at first instance, including the claim for rectification.

The Bankruptcy Act does not open an appeal against the taking over of the proceedings by the bankruptcy trustee as such. However, the bankrupt may, if necessary, challenge a decision of the court in this regard. In the present case, such a decision is contained in the note in the roll journal that the trustee in bankruptcy takes over the proceedings (see 2.3.2 above). Through this note in the case report, the court has announced that it has accepted the taking over of the entire proceedings - now that the takeover has not been clauseed or restricted by the receiver or the court - as a legal fact and that it will attach the procedural consequence that the bankrupt is considered to be out of the proceedings and that only the bankruptcy trustee can still act as a party to the proceedings.

This judgment is a decision that interferes with the bankrupt's rights and interests, now that it has been taken out of the proceedings. With regard to the bankrupt, this opinion must therefore be regarded as a final decision, against which he can appeal against the objection of the estate, within the term of appeal that applies in the case in which he has been brought out of the proceedings.

3.3.4
Now that [claimant] was represented in court by a lawyer, who is supposed to be aware of the legal consequences of the bankruptcy taking over, the case was known to her, in view of the findings of the Court of Appeal set out in 3.3.2 above. the court was taken out of court. In itself, it could have successfully challenged this as far as the rectification claim is concerned (see above in 3.2.1-3.2.4). However, it is established that [claimant] did not (timely) use legal remedies against the decision of the court that appears from the note in the journal. As a result, that decision has become final, which means that the court - as it also did - only had to consider the trustee as party to the proceedings in its final judgment.

The Court of Appeal therefore rightly ruled (in legal ground 3.7) that [claimant] has been excluded from the proceedings and that it is no longer a party to the proceedings, so that it was not authorized to appeal against the final judgment given in the name of the curator. . The decision of the court that [claimant] is inadmissible on appeal is independently supported by those correct judgments.

3.4
Nor can the other complaints of the plea lead to cassation. The Supreme Court does not have to motivate why it came to this judgment. In assessing these complaints, it is not necessary to answer questions that are important for the unity or development of the law (see art. 81 paragraph 1 RO).

5 Decision
The high Council:

- dismisses the action;

- orders [claimant] to pay the costs of the cassation proceedings, estimated up to this judgment on BING's side at € 865.34 in disbursements and € 2,200 in salary.

This judgment was delivered by Vice President C.A. Streefkerk as chairman and counselors T.H. Tanja-van den Broek, C.E. du Perron, M.J. Kroeze and C.H. Sieburgh, and spoken publicly by Vice President E.J. Numann on March 13, 2020.

Central Netherlands District Court 12 July 2017, ECLI: NL: RBMNE: 2017: 3456.

Court of Appeal Arnhem-Leeuwarden March 6, 2018, ECLI: NL: GHARL: 2018: 2093.

See Van der Feltz I (1896), p. 369.

See Van der Feltz I (1896), p. 365.

Van der Feltz I (1896), p. 382.

See Van der Feltz I (1896), p. 372.

Cf. HR 6 July 2018, ECLI: NL: HR: 2018: 1100, legal ground. 3.3.2-3.3.3.