Pronunciation


COURT OF ARNHEM-LEEUWARDEN
location Leeuwarden

civil law department

case number court 200.263.697 / 01

(case number court of the Northern Netherlands 186992)

decision of 17 March 2020

in the case of

[applicant],

residing in [A],

applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the woman,

lawyer: mr. P. Rietberg in Groningen,

and

[defendant],

residing in [A],

defendant on appeal,

further to be called: the man,

lawyer: mr. L.G. Mellens-Schrage in Hoogezand.

1 Proceedings

For the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of 11 June 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number. Also to be mentioned: the contested decision.

The appeal procedure
2.1
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

the notice of appeal with production (s), received on 2 August 2019;

the defense;

a journal message from mr. Mellens-Schrage of 2 January 2020 with production (s);

a journal message from mr. Rietberg of 15 January 2020 with production (s);

a journal message from mr. Rietberg of 30 January 2020 with production (s).

2.2
On February 6, 2020, [the minor1] (hereinafter referred to as: [the minor1]), born [in] 2004 and [the minor2] (hereinafter referred to as [the minor2]), born [in] 2009, who appeared outside parties have been heard by the court.

2.3
The oral hearing took place on February 6, 2020. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. Mr. Rietberg also spoke on the basis of the pleading notes she submitted.

2 Facts

3.1
The parties' marriage was dissolved [in] 2019 by divorce.

3.2
The husband and wife are the parents of [the minor1] and [the minor2] (hereinafter also: the children), over whom they jointly exercise authority.

3.3
By order (amendment) of provisional provisions of 11 December 2018, the court decided, among other things, that [the minor2] is entrusted to the woman and that as a scheme for the distribution of the care and upbringing duties between the parents for the benefit of minors, the minors:

- go to the woman from school on Wednesday and be picked up by the man after work around 6:45 pm;

- go out of school on Thursday to the maternal grandparents (mz) and be picked up there by the man around 6:15 pm;

- go to the woman on Friday after school. The minors stay and stay overnight

the woman;

- to be with the woman on Saturday and to be brought to the man in the evening around 5.30 pm;

- stay with the woman every other weekend at the weekend and spend the night with the woman again on Friday, Saturday and Sunday around 5 pm;

- to be with the man on Sunday and Monday and the Tuesday afternoon after work around 1:30 pm. The minors spend the night with the man;

- where [the minor1] is completely free with regard to spending the night with which parent;

and the husband must pay an amount of € 115 per month to the woman as of 1 November 2018 as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing of the minor [the minor2], whereby the woman has an amount of € 17. must pay the man per month as a contribution towards the costs of care and education of the minor [the minor1].

3 Scope of Dispute

4.1
To the extent relevant, the contested decision provides that the principal residence of [the minor1] and [the minor2] is with the man, that a care scheme for [the minor1] is established whereby [the minor1] every Wednesday afternoon after school resides with the woman, as well as every Saturday, that a care arrangement is established for [the minor2], whereby [the minor2] stays with the woman every Wednesday afternoon after school, as well as every Friday afternoon after school until Saturday and every other week on Sunday, with an overnight stay from Saturday to Sunday. The more or otherwise requested has been rejected.

4.2
The woman appealed against the contested decision with three complaints. The grievances relate to the primary residence of [the minor2] (complaint 1), the care arrangement regarding [the minor2] (complaint 2) and child maintenance (complaint 3). The woman requests by order, as far as practicable in stock, to annul the contested decision concerning the principal residence of [the minor2] and the care scheme, and to redefine the following:

I. that the principal residence of [the minor2] will henceforth be with the woman;

II. that there will be a care scheme with the man that:

- [the minor2] stays with the woman on Wednesday after school and gets by the man by 6:45 PM

picked up;

- [the minor2] goes to grandpa and grandma (mz) on Thursday after school and is picked up by the man around 6:15 pm;

- [the minor2] goes to the woman on Friday after school and then stays and overnight with the woman;

- [the minor2] stays with the woman on Saturday and gets to the man around 5:30 PM

brought;

- [the minor2] stays with the woman every other weekend at the weekend and is brought back to her husband for the night on Friday, Saturday and Sunday around 5 pm.

With regard to [the minor1], the regulation determined by the court can be maintained.

III. to determine that the man has been divorced as of the date of registration

to pay an amount of € 115 per month to the woman as a contribution towards the costs of

care and upbringing of [the minor2] and that the woman will pay an amount of € 17 per month to the man as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing for [the minor1] and / or such a decision as the court in good justice thinks it belongs.

4.3
The man puts up a defense and requests that the appeal included in I - III be rejected and / or the decision of the court of the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen of 11 June 2019 be confirmed or such a decision as to please the court in good justice, costs in law.

4 Reasons of the Decision
The primary residence and care scheme concerning [the minor2]

5.1
The parents have authority together. Pursuant to Section 1: 253a of the Dutch Civil Code (BW), the judge can, at the request of the parents or one of them, establish a regulation regarding the exercise of parental authority. Insofar as relevant here, this arrangement may include: a. an assignment to each of the parents of the care and upbringing duties, as well as with the corresponding application of Article 377a, third paragraph, a temporary ban on a parent from having contact with the child;

b. the decision on which parent the child has his primary residence.

5.2
Prior to the (decision) provisional provisions of 11 December 2018, the parties had reached agreement on the entrustment of [the minor2] to the woman and registration at her address ([the minor1] remained registered with the man), as well as the care arrangement with regard to to both children. This meant that the children stayed with the woman on Wednesday afternoon, as well as Friday afternoon through Saturday 5.30 pm and every other week on Sunday, and the rest of the time with the man. The Thursday afternoon after school, the children went to grandparents (mz) after school. From

This regulation was amended on 22 March 2019 because an argument had taken place between the woman and [the minor1], after which [the minor1] was no longer with the woman. In its decision in the contested decision, the court subsequently sought to link up with the factual situation as it arose after March 22, 2019 and determined the primary residence of both children in the man. The care scheme with regard to [the minor2] has been determined in such a way that the agreements that the parties had already made in this respect are aligned as much as possible. This led to a care arrangement whereby [the minor2] stays with the woman every Wednesday afternoon after school, as well as every Friday afternoon after school until Saturday and every other week on Sunday, with an overnight stay from Saturday to Sunday. In the appeal, only the care scheme and primary residence with regard to [the minor2] are still in dispute.

The woman's theorem

5.3
The woman argues that the man took the position at first instance (in his defense to the independent request of 2 January 2019) that the agreements agreed upon in the interim provisions could also be laid down in the main proceedings. The court has therefore wrongly determined the primary residence of [the minor2] in the man and the care scheme established by the court does not do justice to the interests of [the minor2], according to the woman. [the minor2] is disappointed and misses his mother. In addition, [the minor2] has stated that he is easily bored at the man's home because he cannot play with his friends and / or cannot take friends home. This possibility is present with the woman and it is important for the development of his social skills that [the minor2] plays with his friends. Moreover, [the minor2] perceives the man as too strict and there is no room for [the minor2] to express what is on his mind.

The man's theorem

5.4
The man argues that the parties have indeed made other agreements within the framework of the provisional provisions, which agreements were also implemented in this way until shortly before the court session. However, a major change occurred shortly before the hearing, and this led to the man at the hearing having already stated that he maintained his original request on this point, that the principal residence of the two children should be determined with the man. With regard to the principal residence, the court has correctly stated that a connection is sought with the actual situation as it arose after March 22, 2019. In this factual situation, [the minor1] stays with the man and there is little or no contact with the woman and [the minor2] stays with the man by far most of the week. It is true that parties have agreed a care scheme during the interim relief procedure. However, this arrangement has come into a completely different light because of the event just before the hearing and the child interview. The care scheme as established by the court is going well and [the minor2] is also very pleased. It gives a lot of rest for [the minor2] that there is now a clear contact arrangement and [the minor2] is also very happy with the man. The man therefore does not recognize himself in the description of the woman that [the minor2] would be bored and would not agree with the man's parenting style.

The opinion of [the minor2]

5.5
has expressed his opinion at the court and indicated that he is doing well. He has a good time at home with father and likes to play with [the minor1] on the PlayStation. He always goes by taxi to his mother on Wednesday afternoon and Friday afternoon and is brought back by his mother to his father. Once every two weeks he spends an entire weekend with his mother. Sometimes they do fun things. [the minor2] prefers to have the same arrangement as [the minor1]. He wants to decide when he goes to his mother and then preferably when [the minor1] also goes.

The opinion of [the minor1]

5.6
has indicated that he is doing well at home with his father. [the minor1] and [the minor2] hardly ever argue. His father can combine his work well with the care of [the minor2] and [the minor1]. He likes the fact that [the minor1] can decide when to go to his mother.

The substantive assessment

5.7
The Court of Appeal is of the opinion that it is not in the interest of [the minor2] to adjust the care scheme or his primary residence. The documents and what emerged at the hearing show that [the minor2] is doing well in the man's home. Despite the very difficult relationship between the man and the woman, there is a clear and structured care scheme that is going well and the court therefore sees no reason to extend the care scheme with an overnight stay from Friday to Saturday once every fourteen days. . In addition, the court is of the opinion that the court correctly determined the primary residence of [the minor2] in the man. [the minor2] spends most of the week with the man and it is fitting that his primary residence with the man is also determined. The man is doing well with [the minor2] and for that reason the court does not consider it in his interest to change his situation. The fact that the parties have made agreements in the context of the provisional provisions about the care arrangement and the entrustment of [the minor2] to the woman and that the man initially indicated to the court in court proceedings that decisions could be taken in accordance with those agreements does not lead to another judgment. After all, in view of the provisions of Article 283 of the Code of Civil Procedure, it is permitted to revert to a position previously taken. The man did this. In addition, a temporary provision is a temporary decision that applies for the duration of the divorce proceedings. Therefore, as the woman apparently states, the husband cannot be held to the agreements made in this procedure. On the basis of the above, the court is of the opinion that the requests of the woman to determine the primary residence with her and to determine a different care scheme must be rejected.

A special consideration for [the minor2]

5.8
Because [the minor2] has informed the court that he would like a different care arrangement with his mother than that currently laid down by the court and that will be ratified by the court, the court will try to explain in this separate consideration why court believes that the care scheme should remain as it is now. [the minor2], you indicated in the conversation with the court that you would prefer that you can decide for yourself when you go to your mother because [the minor1] is allowed to do this too. You would prefer to go to your mother if [the minor1] also goes and stay at home with your father if [the minor1] also stays at home. You find that more fun. The court decided to leave the care scheme as it is now. This is because you are ten years old and it is good for you and your development at that age to keep in regular contact with your mother. This may not work as well if the court decides that you can decide for yourself when you go to your mother. The fact that there are fixed days and times when you are with your mother also makes it clear to you where you stand and you do not always have to choose what you want. The court understands that you would like the same as [the minor1] but [the minor1] is already a lot older and can therefore decide better when he wants to see your mother.

Child maintenance

5.9
The court has rejected the requests of the husband and wife for a contribution towards the costs of the children, since both have insufficient capacity to meet the (care) costs of the other parent.

The woman's theorem

5.10
The woman primarily takes the view that the agreements that the parties have made in the context of the change of the provisional provisions must be maintained (namely that the husband is obliged to take an amount of € 115 as of the date of registration of the divorce order). , - too much per month to the woman as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing of [the minor2] and that the woman will pay an amount of € 17 per month to the man as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing for the benefit of [the minor1]) all the more because this has been implemented by the parties - at least until June 6, 2019 - and the man at the court has explicitly indicated in his defense to the independent request that these contributions also could be established under the main proceedings. In the alternative, the woman requests the court to take such a decision as the court considers to be in good justice.

The man's theorem

5.11
The man claims to pay all costs for the benefit of the children, since the main residence of both children is determined by the man. The man also wants to note that the court has correctly stated in its order that the care costs of the man himself

Amounts to € 674, and that his capacity is € 579, - per month. This has already sufficiently demonstrated that there is no room to make any contribution to the woman.

The substantive assessment

5.12
The court is of the opinion that the woman's request should be rejected.

It is true that the man stated in his defense at first instance that the contribution to the costs of care and upbringing of the children, as agreed by the parties in the context of the interim provisions, can also be determined in the main proceedings, but it is, as also considered under 5.7 above, permitted to return to this later. The man did this. In addition, a temporary provision is a temporary decision that applies for the duration of the divorce proceedings. Therefore, as the woman states, the husband cannot be held to the agreements made in this procedure. In addition, the documents and what emerged at the hearing showed that the husband does not have the means to pay for the woman's healthcare costs. The court will therefore ratify the contested decision on this point as well.

5 Conclusion
On the basis of what has been considered above, the court will ratify the contested decision, insofar as it is subject to its judgment.

6 Decision
The appellate court, on appeal:

ratifies the order of the court in the Northern Netherlands, location Groningen, of

June 11, 2019, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. IM. Dölle, I.A. Vermeulen and J.G. Idsardi, assisted by Mr. I.G. Vos as a registrar, and was pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar on March 17, 2020.
