Pronunciation


Rotterdam District Court
Team family

case numbers / appeal numbers: C / 10/547684 / FA RK 18-2502 (divorce)

C / 10/576696 / FA RK 19-5420 (settlement marital

requirements)

Order of 8 May 2020 regarding the divorce

in the case of:

[man's name], the man,

living at a secret address,

lawyer mr. R. van Biezen in The Hague,

against

[woman's name], the woman,

residing in [place of residence of woman], [address of woman],

lawyer mr. L.H.M. Zonnenberg in 's-Hertogenbosch.

1 Proceedings

1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

the petition with attachments from the man, received on March 29, 2018;

the statement of defense also an independent request with attachments from the woman, received on 24 July 2018;

the defense to the independent request, also containing changes to requests with attachments from the man, received on 19 September 2018;

the letter from the woman of 16 October 2018;

the letter with attachments from the woman of 29 August 2019 also containing additional requests;

the letter with attachments from the man of 29 August 2019, also containing additional requests;

the letter with attachments from the woman dated 30 September 2019;

the defense to the additional requests also amending requests with attachments from the man, received on 31 December 2019;

the statement of defense at the independent request also changes the independent request of the woman, received on February 24, 2020;

a letter from the Kinder- en Jongerenrechtswinkel in The Hague on February 18, 2020 with a handwritten letter of minors to be reported as an attachment;

the letter with attachments from the woman of 28 February 2020;

the letter with attachments from the man of 29 February 2020 also containing additional requests;

the letter with attachments from the man dated March 10, 2020;

the woman's letter of 11 March 2020.

1.2.
The oral hearing of the case took place on March 13, 2020. The following appeared:

the woman with her lawyer mr. Zonnenberg;

the man with his lawyers mr. Van Biezen and mr. Weermeijer;

the Rotterdam-Dordrecht Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Council), represented at the hearing by [name of representative].

1.3.
During the oral hearing, a pleading memorandum was submitted by the woman's lawyer.

2 Facts

2.1.
Parties were married to each other in The Hague on December 4, 2010 by prenuptial agreement.

2.2.
The minor children of the parties are:

[name of minor 1], born on [date of birth of minor 1] 2010 in [place of birth of minor 1],

[name of minor 2], born on [date of birth of minor 2] 2012 in [place of birth of minor 2],

hereinafter referred to collectively as the minors.

2.3.
The man has Dutch nationality. The woman is a Luxembourg national. The minors have both Dutch and Luxembourg nationality.

2.4.
In an interim order of the court of The Hague of May 18, 2018, the preliminary relief judge - insofar as relevant here - determined that the minors will be with the man every other week from Friday to Monday to school and that the man will be the minors always picks up from and returns to school.

2.5.
By order of this court of 23 September 2019, the court has determined - in so far as relevant here - that the husband will pay a child contribution of € 87 per month per child and a care plan to the woman. , where minors will be with men every other week from Friday to Monday to school, with the following:

I. the man always takes the minors from school on Friday and takes them to school on Monday;

II. the woman makes sure that on Friday morning of the weekend of contact enough medication for [name of minor 2] is available in the refrigerator of the school;

III. insofar as the woman does not provide sufficient necessary (sports) clothing for the weekend of contact, the man must purchase these himself;

IV. during intercourse with one parent, that parent has control over the interpretation of the contact weekends and vice versa. In order to avoid tensions between the parties and thus for the minors, the woman is not present at the transition times at school.

3 Appeal
2.6.
Separation

2.6.1.
The man requests that the divorce be pronounced between the parties. He argues that marriage has been permanently disrupted.

2.6.2.
The woman does not dispute the alleged sustainable disruption. She refers to the judgment of the court.

2.6.3.
Because the parties were habitually resident in the Netherlands at the time of the filing of the petition, the Dutch court comes under Article 3 paragraph 1 sub a of the EC Regulation No. 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 on the jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and in matters of parental responsibility (hereinafter: Brussels II-bis), jurisdiction to rule on the application for divorce.

2.6.4.
Pursuant to Section 10:56 of the Dutch Civil Code, Dutch law applies to the request for divorce.

2.6.5.
Pursuant to Article 815 (2) DCCP, insofar as it is relevant here, a (preliminary) petition for divorce must contain a parental plan with regard to the minor children of parties over whom they jointly exercise authority. Because the parental plan is formulated in law as a procedural requirement for a divorce petition, the court has the power to declare a spouse in the divorce petition inadmissible unless there are reasons to believe that the parental plan cannot reasonably be submitted (Article 815 paragraph 6 DCCP).

2.6.6.
No parental plan has been submitted by the man in accordance with Article 815 (2) DCCP. Because the man has given sufficient reasons that it was not reasonably possible for him to submit a parental plan agreed by both parties at the time of the filing for divorce, the court will receive the man in his request for divorce.

2.6.7.
The divorce petition is granted if not disputed and based on the law.

2.7.
Residence

2.7.1.
The husband requests that the minor's primary residence be with the woman.

2.7.2.
The woman does not defend this request.

2.7.3.
Because the minors are habitually resident in the Netherlands, the Dutch court has jurisdiction under Article 8 Brussels IIa to hear the request.

2.7.4.
Pursuant to Article 15 paragraph 1 of the Hague Child Protection Convention 1996, the Dutch court applies Dutch law to the request.

2.7.5.
The court decides in accordance with the man's request, because the request has not been contested and is based on the law. It has not been shown that the interests of minors oppose this. The minors have also stayed with women since the parties actually split up.

2.8.
The care scheme and other provisions with regard to minors

2.8.1.
The man requests, shortened showing:

A. to establish a care scheme, whereby the minors stay with him as follows:

- from school every Friday from Monday to Monday before school;

- extension of the contact weekend if the minors are free on Friday or Monday, in the sense that the access starts on Thursday from school or ends on Tuesday before school;

- holidays start on Friday at 3 pm and end on Monday at 9 am;

- if the holiday lasts 2 weeks or more, by half, with the minors staying with the man for the second half in the even years and the first half in the odd years;

- if the holiday lasts less than 2 weeks, the minors stay with the woman for the entire holiday in the even years and with the man in the odd years;

- on free school days, the minors stay with the parent they are with at the time;

- Easter and Christmas: in the even years Easter Monday / Christmas day from 10 a.m. to 10 a.m. the following day for men and Easter / Christmas day from 10 a.m. to 10 a.m. next day for women and rotating annually;

- the man collects and delivers from the minors;

- the weekend arrangement stops during the holiday and continues after the holiday as if there had been no holiday;

replacement permission to apply for a Dutch passport for minors;

to determine that the woman gives the minors the necessary (sports) clothing, books, medication and the like to the minors to school on Friday morning;

to determine that the woman grants her permission, so that the man can independently obtain medication for [name of minor 2] from the doctor, or to grant replacement permission;

to determine that the woman is not present at or near school at the transition times that the man brings / takes the minors to and from school on forfeiture of a penalty payment;

to stipulate that during the man's moments of interaction the woman may not be present at activities of the minors, such as football training, matches, dancing, swimming, parties and the like forfeited by a penalty payment;

order an investigation by the council;

establish an information and consultation scheme.

2.8.2.
The woman puts forward a motivated defense against the requests of the husband and calls for rejection of the requests. She requests independently, in short:

to order a parenthood investigation or a council investigation;

insofar as no Board investigation is ordered, to appoint a special receiver pursuant to Section 1: 250 BW;

to determine a care scheme, whether or not pending the council investigation, whereby the minors stay with the man as follows:

- primarily a weekend every two weeks from Saturday after the sports match of [name of minor 1] (football or tennis), where the man picks up the minors in The Hague and where the woman delivers the cooled growth hormones for [name of minor 2] to the man until Sunday 7:00 PM, during which the man returns the minors to the woman, under the obligation of the man to bring the minors to school and class parties and birthday parties of classmates and friends during his care weekends and to bring them there and to get;

- in the alternative, in case the court starts the care weekend of the man on Friday, from Friday evening at 7 p.m., after the football training of [name of minor 1] (where the man picks up the minors at the football club) to Sunday evening at 7 p.m. the man brings the minors to the woman, under the obligation of the man to participate in his sports competitions (football and / or tennis) during his care weekends and to bring and collect him and the minors to participate in school / class parties and birthday parties of classmates and friends and to bring them there and pick them up;

- in the further alternative, in case the court starts the man's weekend of care on Friday from school until 7 pm on Sunday, during which the man brings the children to the woman, under the obligation of the man to take part [name of minor 1] during his care weekends. to have his football training at [name of football club] on Friday afternoon / evening and to his sports matches (football and / or tennis) and to bring him there and to bring the minors to participate in school / class parties and birthday parties of classmates and bring friends and bring them there;

maintain a definitive holiday arrangement pending parenthood or council research and, alternatively, establish a holiday arrangement until 2021, as shown in Exhibit 56, where the husband is required to inform the woman of the minors' whereabouts during the holidays and to require him to allow telephone contact between the woman and the minors twice a week during the holidays.

2.8.3.
During the oral hearing, the Council indicated that it was seriously concerned about the minors. The tension between the parties is palpable and it is therefore imperative that the council be involved. During the oral discussion, the possibility of participating in the council's research method: 'Parenthood in Consultation' was discussed. In contrast to a regular council investigation, this method involves both parents talking to two council members and the investigation is in principle short-lived. It is examined on which points parents can find each other and on which points disputes remain. The minors can be involved in the investigation. During the interviews, council members inform parents how they view the disputes and what they think is in the interests of the minors. If the disputes persist, the advice of the council to the court will be focused on those disputes.

2.8.4.
During the oral hearing, the parties declare their willingness to enter the 'Parenting in Consultation' process with the council.

2.8.5.
The court will hold the treatment of the care scheme and other requests pending the outcome of the 'Parenthood in Consultation' process until after the date mentioned, with the exception of what is considered below.

May holidays 2020

2.8.6.
With regard to the May holidays, the parties have agreed during the oral hearing that the minors will stay with the woman at 1 p.m. from Friday 24 April to Saturday 2 May and with the man from Saturday 2 May at 1 p.m. to Sunday 10 May, whereby the man picks up the minors from the woman on Saturday 2 May at 1 pm and returns them to the woman on 10 May at 10 am in connection with Mother's Day.

Weekend May 15-18, 2020

2.8.7.
The woman has requested that [name of minor 1] stay with the man from Friday 6:30 PM to Sunday 7:00 PM, where [name of minor 1] will participate in a football tournament in Lille. The woman requested that [name of minor 2] stay with her during school that weekend from Friday 15 May to Monday 18 May. She argues that it is not in the interest of [name of minor 2] to participate in the football tournament of [name of minor 1] in Lille.

2.8.8.
The man puts forward a reasoned defense and advocates rejection of the request.

2.8.9.
Pursuant to the currently applicable care scheme, as established by order of September 23, 2019 under the provisional provisions, the minors stay with the man from school that weekend from Friday to Monday for school. The interpretation of this care weekend is up to the man. The court sees no reason to decide otherwise for this weekend on behalf of [name of minor 2] and will therefore reject the woman's request.

Father's Day

2.8.10.
During the oral hearing, the parties agreed that the minors will stay with the man on Father's Day from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.

Substitute permission for application for a Dutch passport

2.8.11.
The man primarily requests that he be granted replacement permission to apply for a Dutch passport for the minors. The minors now only have Luxembourg passports, which are managed by women.

2.8.12.
The woman puts forward a reasoned defense and calls for the request to be rejected.

2.8.13.
Pursuant to Article 827 (1) (f) of the Rv, the court may, as ancillary provision for divorce, make a provision other than that referred to in subsections a to e, provided that it is sufficiently coherent with the request for divorce and it is not expected that the handling it will lead to unnecessary delay in the proceedings.

The court is of the opinion that the request for substitute consent is sufficiently coherent with the request for divorce with ancillary provisions and that its handling does not lead to unnecessary delay of the proceedings.

The request is based on Article 1: 253 a BW. This article provides that in the event of joint exercise of authority, disputes in this regard may be brought before a court at the request of the parents or of one of them. The court takes such a decision as it deems desirable in the best interests of the child.

2.8.14.
The court is of the opinion that the man has an interest in his request. In case of granting of his request, the parties can each have a set of passports of the minors, so that no dispute can arise regarding the issue and return of the passports. The claim of the woman that she always provides passports to him if the man needs them does not alter this. The court will grant the man's request.

Summer vacation

2.8.15.
During the 'Parenting in Consultation' process, the parties will also endeavor to make a holiday arrangement by mutual agreement. Insofar as the parties will not reach an agreement on the summer holidays 2020, the court will make a decision in this regard. Parties will then have to submit this dispute to the court in good time by letter.

2.9.
Child contribution

2.9.1.
The woman requests that a contribution to the costs of care and education (hereinafter: child contribution) of the minors be set at € 625 per month per child.

2.9.2.
The man claims that he does not have the means to pay a child contribution and advocates rejection of the request.

Jurisdiction and applicable law

2.9.3.
Pursuant to Article 3 of the Maintenance Regulation No. 4/2009 Council of

December 18, 2008 (hereinafter: Ali-vo), the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the request for determination of a child contribution, because both parties and minors live in the Netherlands.

2.9.4.
In accordance with Article 3 of the Protocol of 23 November 2007 on the law applicable to maintenance obligations (hereinafter: the Protocol), the court will apply Dutch law to the request for determination of a child allowance.

The effective date

2.9.5.
The man states that the effective date should be the date of decision. The woman does not object to this, so that the child contribution will be determined as of the date of the decision.

2.9.6.
The amount of the child contribution to be determined is in dispute between the parties. The court will calculate the child allowance in accordance with the recommendations included in the report of the Expert Group on Maintenance Standards (Treme Report).

The need

2.9.7.
In order to determine the need, the parties' own share in the costs of the minors must first be determined on the basis of the net disposable family income at the time of the actual separation of the parties, increased by any child-related budget received. Parties have lived together as a family until December 27, 2014. In principle, the income data for the year 2014 will be used, unless there is a compelling reason to deviate from this.

2.9.8.
The man states that his net disposable income (hereinafter: NBI) amounted to € 1,312 per month in 2014, based on the company's operating profit of € 16,155 gross that year. The woman puts forward a reasoned defense against this and argues that an NBI of € 2,341 per month should be assumed on the basis of an average profit from a company of

€ 30,000 gross.

The court will follow the woman's position. The man failed to bring his annual accounts for 2010 to 2013 into question. These documents are necessary to obtain a true and fair view of the average profit from business during the marriage. This should be expected from the man. After all, the profit fluctuates. It follows from the fiscal report 2014 that the result before tax in 2013 amounted to € 48,663, while the 2010 tax return submitted by the woman results in a profit from business of € 29,823 gross. The court therefore considers the profit from business in 2014 not representative of the NBI of the man during the marriage and will assume an average profit of € 30,000 gross. The man has no further defense against the calculation of the woman, so that the court determines the NBI of the man at € 2,341 per month. The income-related combination tax credit has also been taken into account. Moreover, this income is in line with the husband's assertion that during the marriage he withdrew an amount of € 2,500 to € 3,000 from his company in private each month to contribute to the family's expenses.

2.9.9.
The woman states that the calculation of her NBI should be based on her last income of € 4,446.43 gross per month excluding holiday allowance and a thirteenth month at the AFM. The man puts forward a reasoned defense and states that the income for 2014 of € 49,311 gross must be assumed, which partly consisted of an employment income and partly of an unemployment benefit.

The woman was already employed by the AFM at the start of the marriage until 1 July 2014. Shortly thereafter, the parties actually separated. Therefore, the court is of the opinion that the woman's income at the AFM is representative of her NBI during the marriage. Because the man has not furthermore put forward a defense against the calculation of the woman, the court determines the NBI of the woman on the basis of this at € 3,266 per month.

2.9.10.
The court thus calculates the parties' net disposable family income at € 5,607 per month. Parties did not receive a child-related budget.

2.9.11.
The aforementioned net disposable family income of the parties, added to the number of child benefit points applicable to minors (8), based on the table 2014 own share costs of children, which is included as an appendix to the report of the Expert Group Alimentation Standards 2014, amount of € 1,363 per month. Indexed to 2020, this results in an amount of € 1,508.00 per month, so that the needs of the minors are determined at the latter amount.

Capacity calculation

2.9.12.
It is then necessary to assess in what proportion this need of the minors should be divided between the parents. This is done in proportion to both carrying capacity.

2.9.13.
To this end, the current net disposable income of the parties must first be determined.

Given the starting date of the determination of the contribution, the 2020 rates are used.

Carrying capacity man

2.9.14.
The earning capacity of the man is in dispute between the parties. The man argues that the calculation of his capacity must be based on the average profit from business for the years 2017 to 2019 of € 30,788 gross. The woman puts forward a motivated defense. She believes that the man is able to realize a significantly higher profit.

The man works full-time as an independent lawyer and mainly handles cases on an additive basis in the areas of criminal law, family law and the Wvggz and Wzd. For years, a series of austerity measures has been implemented within the system of funded legal aid. Because of these cutbacks, the man has taken various actions to save costs, for example by canceling the rent of his business premises in The Hague. The court also finds in the annual reports that the costs have decreased over the years. In addition, the man makes an effort to increase his turnover. For example, the man has been retrained so that he can also act as a lawyer in compulsory healthcare matters under the Wvggz and Wzd. During the oral hearing, the husband explained that, contrary to what the woman thinks, he is not assigned 70 compulsory healthcare cases per year and that he does not yet have a permanent client base in that new jurisdiction. The court is of the opinion that the man has sufficiently substantiated that he is not able to generate a higher profit. Partly in view of the age of the man, the court considers that it is not easy for the man to take up an employment elsewhere, regardless of whether a higher income can be expected within his jurisdictions. To determine the NBI of the man, the court will assume the profit for 2018 of € 33,967. After all, the man stated during the oral hearing that the turnover and costs for 2019 are virtually the same.

2.9.15.
The court determines (with reference to the calculation attached to this order) the NBI of the man for the year 2020 on the basis of a profit of € 33,967 on € 2,286 per month.

The following entrepreneur's allowance has been taken into account:

- self-employed deduction of € 7,030

The SME profit exemption is € 3,771.

Account is taken of the premiums for disability insurance of € 417 per month, because it is reasonably and tax deductible.

The following tax credits have been taken into account:

- the general tax credit

- the employed person's tax credit

Finally, the income-related health insurance law contribution of € 1,263 owed by the man on the assessment has been taken into account.

2.9.16.
To determine the man's ability to pay, the woman states that it is necessary to deviate from the usual ability to pay formula, because the man lives with his new partner. In that case, the fixed living load of 30% of the NBI does not apply. The man argues motivated that he has no housing costs.

Since 2013, a fixed calculation system has been chosen for the calculation of child maintenance. This is based on a reasonable flat-rate housing burden, on the basis of which the determination of child maintenance will meet the legal standards. In reality, housing costs will always be lower or higher. In view of the prevailing doctrine in case law, there is no reason to deviate from the flat-rate housing load just because the actual housing costs are or may be lower than the standard housing load. Special circumstances must be present for a deviation. Being able to share housing costs with a new partner does not count as such. The court therefore passes the position of the woman and will determine the standing of the man on the basis of the formula.

Because the NBI is higher than € 1,660, the man's ability to pay is determined using the following formula: 70% x [NBI - (0.3xNBI + 975)] and amounts to € 438 per month.

Woman carrying capacity

2.9.17.
The earning capacity of the woman is also in dispute between the parties. The woman argues that income should not be taken into account on her side. Her employment ended on July 1, 2014 and she is currently unable to earn any income.

The man has a motivated defense. He states that the woman has two masters and has completed a Grotius course in Banking and Securities Law.

The woman has contradicted that she had a burnout in 2014. The court understands that the divorce proceedings, in combination with the care for the minors, also have the necessary impact on the woman's mood. Nevertheless, the court is of the opinion that some effort can now be expected from the woman. Although the woman states that [name of minor 2] needs extra guidance and care in connection with her health, the husband has disputed this with reasons. In the light of this motivated dispute, the woman has insufficiently substantiated that the health of [name of minor 2] is (completely) in the way of re-entering the labor market. The court is therefore of the opinion that the woman could at least work during the school hours of the minors. Because the woman has not participated in the labor process for a long time, the court will take into account a build-up. The court will only give the woman the opportunity to look for a job six months after the date of this order. During these six months, the woman has no earning capacity. After these six months have elapsed, the court will assume a gross earning capacity of € 20,000 a year for two years and a gross earning capacity of € 30,000 a year after those two years.

2.9.18.
The court determines (with reference to the calculations appended to this order) the current NBI of the woman on the basis of a gross annual salary of € 0 and € 20,000 and finally of € 30,000 at € 448 per month, respectively € 2,115 per month and finally at € 2,698 per month.

The following tax credits have been taken into account:

- the general tax credit

- the employed person's tax credit (insofar as earning capacity has been assumed)

- the income-related combination tax credit (insofar as earning capacity is assumed).

2.9.19.
Account has been taken of the child-related budget of € 448 per month, to which the woman is entitled if she does not receive an income from paid employment, as well as with a gross annual salary of € 20,000 and € 400 with a gross annual salary of € 30,000. , -.

2.9.20.
Over the period that the woman has no earning capacity, her ability to pay is determined on the basis of the table amounts at the minimum amount of € 50 per month. After these six months have elapsed since the date of this decision, the woman's ability to pay, because the NBI is higher than € 1,660, is determined using the following formula: 70% x [NBI - (0.3xNBI + 975)] and amounts to € 354 per month with a gross annual salary of € 20,000 and € 640 per month with a gross annual salary of € 30,000.

Capacity comparison

2.9.21.
Because the joint capacity of the parties, € 488 per month and € 792 per month and finally € 1,078 per month, is lower than the needs of the minors, a capacity comparison cannot be done. The man's contribution is limited to his carrying capacity of € 438.

Care discount

2.9.22.
The man claims to be entitled to the application of a healthcare discount of 25%. The woman defends and argues that a care discount of 15% should be assumed.

2.9.23.
In view of the applicable care arrangement of one weekend per 14 days and half of all school holidays, the court finds that the man cares for the minors on average two days a week. This includes a healthcare discount of 25%.

2.9.24.
Because the need of the minors is € 1,508 per month, the care discount amounts to € 376 per month.

2.9.25.
Because the capacity of both parents together is insufficient to fully meet the needs of the minors, half of the deficit is attributed to both parents. This is done as follows:

During the first six months

The shortfall is € 1,020, so half of that is € 510.

Because half of this shortage is higher than the healthcare discount, the man cannot deduct the healthcare discount from the previously calculated contribution.

The contribution to be imposed on the man therefore becomes € 438 per month, ie € 219 per month per child.

For two years from November 8, 2020

The shortfall is € 716, so half of that is € 358.

The latter amount is deducted from the care discount: was € 376, so that € 376, - / - € 358, = = € 18.

This remainder will be deducted from the previously calculated contribution: € 438.00 / € 18.00 = € 420.00.

The contribution to be imposed on the man is therefore: € 420 per month, thus € 210 per month per child.

As of November 8, 2022

The shortfall is € 430, so half of that is € 215.

The latter amount is deducted from the healthcare discount: was € 376, so that € 376 - / - € 215 remains = € 161.

This remainder will be deducted from the previously calculated contribution: € 438.00 / € 161.00 = € 277.00.

The contribution to be imposed on the man is therefore: € 277 per month, thus rounded off € 139 per month per child.

4 Reasons of the Decision

2.9.26.
In view of the above, a contribution to be paid by the man in the costs of care and education of the minors of € 219 per month per child is in accordance with the legal standards during the first six months after the date of this decision and with effect from November 8, 2020 of € 210 per month per child for two years and after the expiry of that period with effect from November 8, 2022 a contribution of € 139 per month per child.

2.9.27.
The legal indexation applies by operation of law to this maintenance.

2.10.
The living allowance

2.10.1.
The woman requests a contribution to the living expenses of € 5,000 per month to be paid by the man.

2.10.2.
The man puts forward a reasoned defense and advocates rejection of the request.

Jurisdiction and applicable law

2.10.3.
Pursuant to Article 3 of the Ali-vo, the Dutch court has jurisdiction with regard to the request for determination of a maintenance benefit, because the parties live in the Netherlands.

2.10.4.
Pursuant to Article 3 of the Protocol on Dutch law, the court will apply to a request for determination of a living allowance.

The need

2.10.5.
The woman states that the requirement based on the court standard in 2014 is € 2,546 net per month. Indexed to 2020, her requirement is rounded up to € 2,817 per month. In addition, the woman has submitted a list of needs.

2.10.6.
The man disputes that the need can be determined on the basis of the court standard.

2.10.7.
Determining the need for spousal maintenance is custom work. However, a rule of thumb (the so-called court standard) is also available for determining the net requirement. This rule of thumb can be applied, unless the amount calculated on the basis of the rule of thumb is disputed with sufficient motivation. This means that under normal circumstances it can be assumed that the net family income to be spent by the parties, less the share of the costs of children, was available to the parties and that they will have enjoyed it to a greater or lesser degree. It can also provide an indication of the degree of prosperity in which the parties have lived. If a party believes that in a specific case it is necessary to deviate from the court standard, it is up to that party to substantiate this with reasons. The man has had to deal with a bare-bones dispute, referring only to "settled case law" in general. Such a dispute is insufficiently motivated, so that the court ignores it and will determine the need of the woman on the basis of the court standard. The husband has no further defense against the calculation of the woman, so that the court determines the woman's need at € 2,817 net per month.

Neediness

2.10.8.
The man argues that the woman could fully support herself.

2.10.9.
The woman disputes this with motivation.

2.10.10.
With reference to paragraph 2.9.17, the court is of the opinion that the woman may now be expected to participate in the labor process during the school hours of the minors. During the first six months after the date of this decision, the woman will be earning earning capacity of € 0 per year and after the expiry of this term earning earning capacity of € 20,000 gross per year for two years after expiry of that period. long-term earning capacity of € 30,000 gross per year.

2.10.11.
To determine the NBI of the woman, the court joins the calculation as included in legal consideration 2.9.18. In the context of the partner contribution, the NBI of the woman, excluding the child-related budget, is € 0 per month with no earning capacity, € 1,667 net per month based on a gross annual salary of € 20,000. and € 2,298 net per month based on a gross annual salary of € 30,000. With no earning capacity, the woman's need amounts to € 2,817 net per month. The net income with a gross annual salary of € 20,000 and € 30,000 respectively is deducted from her requirement of € 2,817 per month, after which an additional requirement remains of € 1,150 net per month during the first two years. from 8 November 2020 and from 8 November 2022 € 519 net per month.

Capacity calculation

2.10.12.
The man disputes that he has the means to pay the requested contribution.

2.10.13.
The court will calculate the man's ability to pay on the basis of the recommendations included in the report of the Expert Group on Maintenance Standards (Treme Report).

2.10.14.
As considered above, the court determines the NBI of the man on the basis of a profit of € 33,967.00 for 2018 at € 2,703 per month, whereby the court refers to the calculation appended to this decision.

The following entrepreneur's allowance has been taken into account:

- self-employed deduction of € 7,030

The SME profit exemption is € 3,771.

Account has been taken of the man-made premiums for disability insurance of € 417 per month. The woman has argued that this premium is too high and should be disregarded. However, the man is an independent entrepreneur, so this concerns insurance that is necessary for him. Furthermore, it is not disputed that the man pays this premium monthly.

The following tax credits have been taken into account:

- the general tax credit

- the employed person's tax credit

Finally, the income-related health insurance law contribution of € 1,263 owed by the man on the assessment has been taken into account.

2.10.15.
To determine the capacity of the man to pay, the court deducts the following, uncontested monthly charges from the net disposable income calculated above:

the standard amount based on the Participation Act, including holiday allowance, for a single person of € 1,052 per month;

the repayment of € 173 per month in respect of the student debt at DUO, as of October 31, 2019 still large € 1,732.54.

2.10.16.
With regard to the disputed charges, the court hereby considers by post as follows:

Living load

The man lives with his new partner. He argues that he contributes to housing costs with an amount of € 800 per month. The woman disputes this with motivation. In the light of the motivated contestation of the woman, the court is of the opinion that the man has not provided sufficient insight into the total living expenses. The court cannot therefore verify what the amount of € 800 per month refers to and whether this concerns half of the total living expenses. The court therefore follows the position of the woman and will take into account a housing cost of € 170 per month, consisting of a contribution to the housing costs of € 400, less the average basic rent of € 230.

Health insurance

The man submits an amount of € 156 per month in respect of the premium for health insurance, including additional insurance. The woman disputes this with motivation.

In view of the motivated contestation of the woman, the man has insufficiently substantiated substantiation that the premium is € 156 per month. After all, the man has not submitted a health insurance policy for 2020. The court therefore takes into account medical costs of € 119 per month, consisting of the premium for health insurance, including supplementary insurance, of € 120 per month, less the part of the medical costs already included in the social assistance standard of € 33. and increased by the deductible associated with this insurance of € 32 per month.

Disability insurance

With reference to legal consideration 2.10.14, the court assumes a premium for disability insurance of € 417 per month.

Conclusion

2.10.17.
From the foregoing, it follows that the man's capacity-free income amounts to a total of € 1,931 per month, so that there is a standing capacity of € 772 per month, whereby the court refers to the calculation appended to this order. 60% of this capacity to pay is available for the partner contribution, being an amount of € 463 per month.

2.10.18.
After deduction of the child contribution plus the care discount of a total of € 438 per month, an amount of € 25 net per month, or € 39 gross per month, remains, with the court referring to the calculation attached to this order. .

2.10.19.
Therefore, a subsistence benefit of the woman of € 39 per month is in accordance with legal standards. The woman's request will be granted up to this amount.

2.10.20.
The legal indexation applies by operation of law to this maintenance.

2.10.21.
Now that no commencement date has been requested, the benefit will be determined with effect from the date on which the divorce decision is entered in the registers of civil status.

2.11.
Settlement of household costs

2.11.1.
On 3 December 2010, the parties had prenuptial agreements drawn up. These prenuptial agreements - as far as relevant here - read as follows:

Exclusion

Article 1

The spouses exclude any community of property.

Evidence agreements

Article 2

(…)

2. Clothing and body jewelry are deemed to be the property of the spouse who uses these goods or for whose use they are intended.

(…)

Cost of the household

Article 7

The costs of the joint household are shared by the spouses, half each. This does not apply insofar as special circumstances dictate otherwise.

The costs of housekeeping include the costs of care and upbringing of the children belonging to the family, the premiums for the usual insurance, the costs of holidays, the rental price of the matrimonial home and interest on loans related to the purchase of the matrimonial home and the holiday home. This also includes the costs of purchasing the household effects and the cars and vessels intended for the family. If these costs, including the costs of a loan taken out in connection with the purchase, have been contributed by both spouses, half of the ownership of the goods in question will accrue to each of them.

If the spouses do not live together by mutual agreement, the joint costs of the separate households, including the costs related to the housing of the spouses, shall be borne in the manner set out in paragraph 1.

A spouse who has contributed more to the cost of the household in a calendar year than he would have to bear under the provisions of this article may reclaim this from the other spouse, provided that he brings that claim within six months of the dissolution of the marriage or, in the event of legal separation, within six months of its conclusion.

If the action is brought in accordance with paragraph 4, it must be settled immediately, unless reasonableness and fairness dictate otherwise. "

2.11.2.
The wife requests that the husband be sentenced to pay an amount of € 148,239.87 to her, or at least an amount to be determined by the court in good justice, within 14 days after the order by the court for the settlement of household expenses. plus the statutory interest from 22 July 2018.

2.11.3.
The man has a motivated defense. He argues primarily for rejection of the request and in the alternative he requests that a payment arrangement be established.

As an independent request, he requests:

primarily to condemn the woman to pay an amount of € 45,132.24 to the man as compensation for the costs of the household overpaid by him for the years 2012 to 2014;

alternatively, order the woman to pay the husband an amount of € 79,828.04 as compensation for the overpaid costs of the household over the years 2012 to 2018 inclusive;

plus the statutory interest from April 1, 2018 until the day of full payment;

and conditionally to condemn the woman to pay an amount of € 45,588.68 to the man on the basis of the distribution of the common goods.

2.11.4.
The woman puts forward a reasoned defense against the independent request of the husband and advocates rejection of the request. She has additionally and conditionally requested to divide the man's goods in half.

Jurisdiction and applicable law

2.11.5.
Because the Dutch court has jurisdiction under the Brussels II-bis Regulation with regard to the request for divorce, it also has jurisdiction with regard to the requested with regard to the matrimonial property regime of parties under Article 5 paragraph 1 of the Matrimonial Property Regimes.

2.11.6.
The matrimonial property regime is governed by the Hague Matrimonial Property Convention 1978 (hereinafter: the Convention). It has not been established that the parties have made a valid choice of law. At the time of the marriage or shortly thereafter, they had no nationality in common within the meaning of Article 15, paragraph 1 of the Treaty. The parties have their first habitual residence after the marriage in the territory of the same state, namely in the Netherlands. Therefore, in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Convention from the date of the marriage, the law of the first habitual residence, namely the law of the Netherlands, will apply to the matrimonial property regime.

Introductory remarks

2.11.7.
The court notes in advance that the parties argue that the other party has failed to comply with the steplight, which requires the request to be rejected. In the present case, it is not evident that there is a failure to comply with the statutory obligation, in the sense that an essential statement has not been taken. The question whether the parties have made sufficient submissions in support of their request, partly in the light of the other party's defense against this, will be addressed in the substantive assessment.

2.11.8.
The court will first discuss the formal defenses of the man. These are all so-called liberating defenses, in which the obligation to provide proof and the burden of proof of the facts or rights that are necessary to be able to honor the legal effect on which the man relies rests on the man. This means that the appeal must be dismissed if the man fails to prove the facts or rights on which the legal effect is based.

Late request?

2.11.9.
The husband argues that the woman's claim for compensation for what she would have contributed too much to the cost of the household was made out of time in the proceedings and should therefore be rejected.

2.11.10.
The woman puts forward a motivated defense.

2.11.11.
The court considers that the woman already made an independent request on 24 July 2018 with regard to settlement of the costs of the household, even when submitting her defense, also containing independent requests. The woman then made her request and its grounds more concrete and substantiated. The woman acted within the legal framework of Article 130 in conjunction with Article 283 DCCP. The husband was not harmed in his interests in the proceedings, because he had sufficient opportunity to defend the woman's request, which he also did extensively. The court therefore passes the man's defense.

Reasonableness and fairness

2.11.12.
The husband argues that the woman's request should be rejected because, according to settled case law, the reasonableness and fairness must be settled after the end of each calendar year and that it is contrary to a party at the end of the marriage is faced with a settlement from the beginning of the marriage. The expiration period of one year after the end of the calendar year also applies if that has not been agreed in the prenuptial agreement, according to the man. In addition, the man states that the parties have not kept records, so that settlement is contrary to reasonableness and fairness.

2.11.13.
The woman puts forward a motivated defense.

2.11.14.
The court is of the opinion that the man's appeal to reasonableness and fairness is unsuccessful and considers the following.

The parties have agreed in their prenuptial agreement that they will bear half of the costs of the joint household. If one party has contributed more than it should have contributed, there is grounds for reimbursement to this party by the other. According to settled case law, it is obvious to assume that the mutual settlement should take place periodically after the end of each calendar year. It is important, however, that this case-law refers to situations in which the parties have not agreed to an expiry clause in the prenuptial agreement. This gap is then filled by the requirements of reasonableness and fairness. In the present case, the parties have agreed on an expiry clause. The parties have explicitly agreed in article 7 paragraph 4 of the prenuptial agreement that the spouse who contributed more in the costs of the household in a calendar year than he would have to pay on the basis of the provisions of article 7, this more from the other spouse. can claim, provided that he makes that claim within six months after the dissolution of the marriage. The woman submitted her request for compensation in time, namely within the expiry period of six months after dissolution of the marriage, which is included in the prenuptial agreement. The man has not presented any other circumstances why the effect of the prenuptial agreement should be limited on the grounds of reasonableness and fairness. The man's assertion that the parties have not kept records, which should result in billing for reasons of reasonableness and fairness, is incorrect, given the extensive evidence that has been brought into question by the parties.

Legal processing

2.11.15.
The husband appeals to legal processing and believes that the woman's request should be rejected within that framework. The woman has been sitting where she should have acted. By doing nothing, the man has been harmed in his legal position, the man said. In addition, the woman has given him justifiable confidence that the costs of the household would not be settled retroactively.

2.11.16.
The woman puts forward a motivated defense.

2.11.17.
An appeal to legal processing requires the existence of special circumstances as a result of which either one party has created justifiable confidence in the other party that he will no longer enforce his claim or the position of the other party is unreasonably prejudiced or aggravated. if the claim would still be asserted.

The court is of the opinion that the man has failed to successfully appeal to one of the above criteria. The husband has insufficiently substantiated that there has been conduct on the part of the wife on the basis of which she has given the husband justified confidence that she would not be entitled to set off the costs of the household. It is correct that a behavior can also consist of a failure to act. In the present case, however, contrary to what the husband claims, the wife was not required to hold the husband accountable for settling the cost of the household. After all, there was no obligation for the parties to settle annually, given the text of their prenuptial agreement. So the woman did not have to act actively. Nor could it be deduced from her sitting still, which, moreover, the woman has argued with reasons, that the woman would not (or no longer) claim set-off. The parties are both lawyers, and the man also studied notarial law. They are therefore each expected to understand the content of the prenuptial agreement and to be aware that at the end of the marriage they could be confronted with a right of compensation with regard to the settlement of the costs of the household. The man could have taken this into account during the marriage. Insofar as the man has not kept careful accounts, this is at his expense and risk. In the light of the circumstances put forward by the man, there is therefore no room for invoking the criterion that his position is unreasonably disadvantaged or aggravated, because the woman still claims her claim. The court therefore passes the man's defense that legal processing is involved.

Different agreements

2.11.18.
The man states that during the marriage the parties have made different agreements and have thereby consciously deviated from the prenuptial agreement. Because of these agreements to the contrary, the woman can no longer claim a right to compensation for offsetting the costs of the household.

2.11.19.
The woman puts forward a motivated defense.

2.11.20.
The court is of the opinion that the husband has insufficiently substantiated that the parties made different agreements during the marriage. Under the prenuptial agreement, parties must each bear half of the costs of the joint household. The court considers that the email from the woman to the man of October 10, 2011 seems to be an elaboration of this regulation. After all, in this e-mail the woman mentions that she wants to divide the costs of the household more evenly and includes the large expenses, which are equally divided between the parties. In her e-mail the woman may not include all the costs of the household and the parties may not always have complied with the prenuptial agreement in practice during the marriage, but this is insufficient to assume that the parties have made different agreements. and wanted to deviate from the prenuptial agreement. The court therefore passes the man's defense.

Settlement period

2.11.21.
The woman argues that settlement of the household costs should take place from the marriage date, December 4, 2010, until the filing of the divorce petition on March 29, 2018.

2.11.22.
The man has a motivated defense. He argues that settlement of the costs of the household can only take place over the period from January 2012 until the actual separation of the parties on December 27, 2014.

2.11.23.
Parties have agreed in article 7 paragraph 1 of the prenuptial agreement that the costs of the joint household are borne jointly by the spouses, each half. Pursuant to Article 7, paragraph 3, the joint costs of the individual households, if the spouses do not live together by mutual agreement, shall be borne in the manner set out in paragraph 1.

The court is of the opinion that the provisions of article 7 of the prenuptial agreement take effect on the date of marriage, namely December 4, 2010. The statement of the man that he no longer has bank statements available for the period from December 4, 2010 to on 1 January 2012, this does not mean that no set-off must be made over this period. In view of the expiry clause in article 7 paragraph 4, the man was able to take into account that a claim to a right of compensation with regard to settlement of the costs of the household can be instituted up to six months after dissolution of the marriage. It is therefore up to each of the parties to keep a thorough administration during the marriage. In addition, the woman submitted her request on July 24, 2018. At that time, the man still had enough time to request his bank statements for 2011 from the bank. The fact that the man no longer has bank statements available from December 4, 2010 until January 1, 2012 is therefore at his expense and risk.

When determining the end date of the period, which must be settled in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the prenuptial agreement, it comes down to an explanation of the prenuptial agreement. Not only a linguistic explanation of the provisions of the prenuptial agreement is important in this respect. In answering that question, it is also a question of the sense that the parties could reasonably accord to these provisions in the given circumstances and what they could reasonably expect from each other in this respect. The man states that he left the marital home on December 27, 2014. Then the common household came to an end. Furthermore, his departure has not taken place by mutual agreement, so that there is no question of mutual cohabitation within the meaning of Article 7, paragraph 3 of the prenuptial agreement. The woman acknowledges that the man's departure came unexpectedly and that this was not done by mutual agreement. However, after that, according to the woman, there was a period of reconciliation and the parties did indeed not live together by mutual agreement, while they tried to save their marriage. According to her, the common household continued to exist. The man disputed this with motivation.

The court is of the opinion that the departure of the husband on December 27, 2014 ended the joint household. After all, from that moment on, each party started to run a separate household. Furthermore, the court is of the opinion that after 27 December 2014 there was no question of no cohabitation by mutual agreement. The woman has insufficiently substantiated this in the context of the motivated contestation of the man. The court therefore concludes that the arrangement, as included in Article 7 of the prenuptial agreement, no longer applies from 27 December 2014.

After this period, the woman still appeals to Article 1: 81 BW. It is correct that parties are obliged to provide each other during the marriage. However, the court is of the opinion that the woman has insufficiently substantiated that this standard must be completed in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of the prenuptial agreement. It has not further stated how this standard should be interpreted differently, so that the court does not have to give an opinion on the period from 27 December 2014. The court therefore establishes that the costs of the household must be settled over the period from December 4, 2010 to December 27, 2014, in accordance with Article 7 paragraph 1 of the prenuptial agreement.

2.11.24.
The court finds that the man has classified his expenditure on the costs of the household per year. The woman has disclosed her expenditure on the costs of the household per cost item for the entire period from December 4, 2010 to March 29, 2018. In order to assess what everyone has spent on the costs of the household, the court will give the woman the opportunity to provide an overview of her expenses, preferably per calendar year, for the period 4 December 2010 to 27 December 2014 on the basis of the bank statements already submitted. This only concerns the woman's expenditure on the costs of the household, now that the man has made his own expenditure transparent. The woman will be given the opportunity to provide the adjusted statements within four weeks of the date of the decision. The man is then given two weeks to respond to this. The court expressly notes that the man is not allowed to respond to this substantively, now that the parties have already had the opportunity to do so. The man may only check whether the amounts are correct on the basis of the documents already submitted by the woman and whether the total amount of expenditure is correct.

2.11.25.
After receipt of the aforementioned documents, the court will further assess the substantive requests made by the parties in the light of the mutual defense. The court will therefore continue to process requests from parties with regard to the right to compensation arising from settlement of the costs of the household and the distribution of the common properties.

2.12.
Litigation costs

2.12.1.
Since no final decision is yet being made with regard to the care scheme and related provisions and the settlement of the prenuptial agreement, no decision has yet been made on the costs of the proceedings.


5 Decision
The court:

3.1.
speaks from the divorce between the parties, married on 4 December 2010 in The Hague;

3.2.
provides that the minors' primary residence will be with women;

3.3.
takes into account the mutual arrangement that the parties have made about the May holidays and Mother's and Father's Day, namely: the minors stay with the woman from Friday 24 April to Saturday 2 May at 1 p.m. and from Saturday 2 May at 1 p.m. to Sunday 10 May at 10 am from the man, with the man picking up the minors from the woman on Saturday 2 May at 1 pm and returning them to the woman on Sunday 10 May at 10 am in connection with Mother's Day. On Father's Day the minors stay with the man from 10 am to 7 pm;

3.4.
grants replacement permission to the man for applying for a Dutch passport on behalf of the minors;

3.5.
provides that this substitute consent serves to replace the required consent of the woman;

3.6.
stipulates that from the date of the decision, the husband will pay the woman as a contribution towards the costs of care and education of the minors, for the future installments, each time in advance, in advance of € 219 per month per child for six months after the date of the decision and as of November 8, 2020 € 210 per month per child and as of November 8, 2022 a contribution of

€ 139 per month per child;

3.7.
grants a living allowance of € 39 per month to be paid by the husband to the wife, to be paid in advance for the first time on the day that the divorce decree is or will be registered in the registers of civil status;

3.8.
declares this order enforceable in stock, except with regard to divorce;

3.9.
rejects the more or otherwise requested;

and before deciding further:

3.10.
provides that until June 5, 2020, the woman be given the opportunity to provide adjusted statements of her expenses to the costs of the household, preferably per calendar year, for the period December 4, 2010 to December 27, 2014, after which the husband will be two weeks have the opportunity to respond to this;

3.11.
stipulates that the hearing of the case with regard to the settlement of the costs of the household and the distribution of the common properties be held until 1 July 2020 PRO FORMA;

3.12.
stipulates that the hearing of the case with regard to the care scheme and related requests and the information and consultation scheme will be held until 1 September 2020 PRO FORMA;

3.13.
requests the Council for Child Protection, region of Rotterdam-Dordrecht, for an investigation or other involvement (Parenthood in Consultation) with regard to the regulation of the distribution of the care and upbringing tasks and related requests and the information and consultation regulation and by that date report to the court (abridged) and issue advice;

3.14.
stipulates that the parties, their lawyers and the Child Protection Board do not have to appear during the oral hearing on the pro forma date.

3.15.
provides that - once the court has received the requested report from the Board in the present case - parties will be given the opportunity to respond in writing, after which - if necessary - the oral hearing of the case will be continued on a date to be determined date and time.

This decision was made by mr. H.J. Wieman-Bart, chairman, also juvenile judge, and mrs. L.M. Coenraad and L. Berghuis-Knijff, judges also children's judges, pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar mr. A.J.I. Mullenders on May 8, 2020.

An appeal can be lodged by the parties against this decision within three months after the date of this decision by submitting an appeal to the court of appeal in The Hague. A party not appearing at first instance may lodge an appeal within three months after the notification of this judgment to him / her in person or within three months after it has been served in another manner and has been publicly disclosed.
