Pronunciation


COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE HERTOGENBOSCH

Family and youth law team

case number: 200.259.201 / 01

court case number: C / 01/337919 / FA RK 18-4296

decision of the multiple chamber of 12 March 2020

on

[appellant],

residing in [place of residence],

applicant in the main appeal,

defendant in the cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer mr. M.A.M.L. from Osch in 's-Hertogenbosch,

against

[defendant],

residing in [place of residence],

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in the cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer mr. L.G.P.A. van Putten-van den Heuvel in Oss.

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of East Brabant of 6 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number. This decision was restored by order of 11 April 2019.

The appeal proceedings
2.1.
The man appealed on 10 May 2019 to the aforementioned decision of 6 March 2019, as restored by order of 11 April 2019.

2.2.
On 2 July 2019, the woman also filed a statement of defense with an incidental appeal.

2.3.
The man filed a defense to the cross-appeal on August 2, 2019.

2.4.
The following documents were also received at the court:

- the minutes of the hearing at first instance dated 15 January 2019, received on 29 May 2019;

- journal message from the man on 23 December 2019 with appendices, received on 23 December 2019;

- journal message from the woman on 24 December 2019 with attachments, received on 27 December 2019.

2.5.
The oral hearing took place on January 14, 2020. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers.

2 Facts
3.1.
The court of appeal is based on the facts established by the court insofar as no appeal has been brought against it. Among other things, the following has been established.

3.2
The parties are the parents of the adult now:

- [the adult] ([the adult]), born on [date of birth] 1998 in [place of birth],

and the now young adult:

- [the young adult] ([the young adult]), born on [date of birth] 2001 in [place of birth].

With regard to the stay of the children, it has become clear from the documents and the oral proceedings that [the adult] recently went to live with the man and his girlfriend in an adjacent part of the man's house. [the young adult] stays with her boyfriend during the week and during the weekends she stays with the woman and the man alternately.

3.3.
By order of the court of East Brabant of April 7, 2016, the court pronounced, among other things, the divorce between the parties, which order was registered in the registers of civil status on April 22, 2016.

3.3.2.
In this order, the court also determined that the divorce agreement and parental plan attached to the decision form part of that order.

3.3.3.
In the divorce settlement signed by the parties on 11 February 2016, the parties have agreed as follows in Article 2, insofar as they are currently relevant with regard to the amount of partner maintenance.

“On the basis of the need and capacity thus determined, the parties agree that from 1 February 2016 the man will contribute to the woman's living expenses with an amount of € 3,600 gross per month, which amount in advance it will be fulfilled ”.

Furthermore, the parties to the settlement agreement, also signed on February 11, 2016, have agreed in Article 1.3:

1.3. Notwithstanding Article 2.3. of the covenant concluded between the parties, the parties establish that the maintenance contribution to be paid by the man to the woman

€ 3,000 gross, which contribution the man will make to the woman with effect from 1 February 2016 in advance. The aforementioned amount will be increased by the statutory indexation as referred to in Section 1: 402 a of the Dutch Civil Code, for the first time on 1 January 2017. ”

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1.
By the contested decision of 6 March 2019, as corrected by the decision of 11 April 2019, the settlement agreement of 11 February 2016, as well as the divorce order, are limited to the extent that it is the woman's living contribution to be paid (hereinafter also : spousal maintenance), has been amended and the spousal maintenance has been set as of 13 September 2018 at € 478 per month. The man's request to have the partner's maintenance amount completely null and void as of September 13, 2018 was rejected.

4.2.1.
In the appeal in principle, the man has requested the court to annul the contested and repaired decision insofar as it concerns the amount of the partner's maintenance and, insofar as once again justified, to set the partner's maintenance to be paid by him to zero. Costs in law.

4.2.2.
The man's grievances relate to the man's standing.

4.3.
In the principal appeal, the woman has requested that the husband's grievances be rejected.

4.4.1.
In the cross-appeal, the woman requested that the contested decision, restored by order of 11 April 2019, be annulled insofar as it concerns the amount of spousal maintenance and, insofar as once again, to dismiss the original preliminary requests of the man . Costs in law.

4.4.2.
The grievances of the woman refer to the capacity of the man.

4.5.
In the cross-appeal, the man has requested that the woman's grievances be rejected.

4.6.
The court will discuss the grievances in principal and incidental appeal jointly per subject.

4 Reasons of the Decision
In the principal and incidental appeal

Change of circumstances

5.1.
There is no dispute between the parties that there has been a change in circumstances that means that the partner's maintenance needs to be reassessed.

starting date

5.2.
Nor is there a dispute between the parties that a change in spousal maintenance should take effect on 30 September 2018.

Need of the woman

5.3.
The court assumes a marriage-related need of the woman of rounded € 3,630 net per month (level 2016), as the parties in article 2.1. of the divorce settlement have been agreed. The need of the woman is not in dispute between the parties.

5.4.
For procedural economic reasons, the court first discusses the standing of the man.

Carrying capacity of the man

5.5.
The husband has stated that he does not have enough capacity to pay any amount of spousal maintenance to the woman. The woman is of the opinion that the husband has, or should be deemed to have, the necessary capacity to continue to pay the agreed spousal maintenance.

Income of the man

5.6.
The court of appeal, like the court of appeal and on the same grounds as the court of appeal, which, after its own consideration and valuation, takes over and makes it the court, is of the opinion that for the calculation of the man's ability to pay, the salary that the man actually deserves. In addition to the documents, the man gave a plausible statement to the court before the court regarding the course of affairs regarding his dismissal from [dredging company] and his unsuccessful attempts to subsequently earn an income from employment again. Partly in view of the training of the man and his age, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the man could reasonably have made the choice to set up a company for which the man has founded [automotive] Automotive BV (hereinafter also: [automotive]) . The man trades in brake parts, a niche in the car industry with which the man has an affinity. The shares of [automotive] are held for 1/3 part by the Limburg Investment and Development Fund and 2/3 part by [management B.V.] (hereinafter: [management B.V.]), the man's management BV. The taxable salary of the man from [management B.V.] amounts to € 48,818 in 2018. The Court of Appeal is of the opinion, in view of the documents and the oral proceedings, that the man cannot currently be considered to earn more than he actually does. In view of the above, the court, like the court, assumes a taxable salary of € 48,818 for the man. There is no dispute between the parties that the premium for disability insurance should not be taken into account, now that this premium is paid by [management B.V.].

5.7.
The Court of Appeal follows the man in his capacity calculation submitted to appeal 31 on production, with regard to the notional rental value of € 2,587 per year, as well as the deductible mortgage interest of € 12,583.28 per year, which figure the woman has not contradicted. The court ignores the woman's defense that the mortgage burden partly relates to the construction of a large shed and that it should not weigh on the man's capacity, now that the woman has not substantiated that statement at all.

The court also takes into account the applicable tax credits. The Court of Appeal calculates the man's net disposable income at € 3,158, with reference to the capacity calculation attached to this order and which forms part of this order.

Possessive income of the man

5.8.
The court takes into account the standard amount based on the Participation Act for a single person living independently to provide the necessary costs of living, excluding the lower limit for housing costs component.

Housing costs

5.9.
The court also takes into account the following monthly charges as the man has included in the aforementioned exhibit 31, which amounts the woman has not disputed with regard to the net part of the calculation:

- € 1,048.61 in mortgage interest;

- € 667.21 in mortgage payments;

- € 146.06 in life insurance premium;

- € 95 in (fixed) other owner's expenses.

Contribution of the husband's partner to housing costs

5.10.
The man has stated the following. The court wrongly determined the contribution of the husband's partner based on the total sum of interest and repayment of all mortgage loans on the husband's home, while some of these mortgage loans relate to the financing of the residual debt of the former matrimonial home. The husband believes that his partner cannot be expected to contribute half of the residual debt of the marital home, a marital debt of the husband and wife. On appeal, in particular in the production 10 submitted by him, the man has calculated that half of the actual housing cost amounts to € 595 per month and that the partner of the man therefore amounts to € 595 per month should contribute to the living expenses of the man.

The woman has not disputed, at least not sufficiently, the propositions of the man, in particular the figures in Exhibit 10. In view of the above, the court sets the contribution of the man's partner in the living costs at € 595 per month.

Medical expenses

5.11.
The Court also takes into account the following monthly charges from the aforementioned production 31:

- € 150.20 in basic ZVW premium;

- € 32 of compulsory deductible,

minus € 35, being the nominal part of the ZVW premium for a single person included in the standard amount for Participation Act.

Cost of the children and saving for the children

5.12.1.
The man has stated that the court incorrectly included the study costs of the children in the man's capacity-free income in item 131 in the capacity calculation. These costs, according to the man, are not part of the man's capacity-less income, but these costs must be deducted from the capacity to pay available for spousal maintenance (item 140).

5.12.2.
The woman has reasoned contradicted the man's statement. She believes that the children do not need a maintenance contribution now that the children are borrowing from DUO and they are earning extra money from the man.

The woman further stated (in her occasional appeal) that the court wrongly took into account the item savings of € 200 per child per month. At the oral hearing, the woman explained that the children do not need savings from their father after the age of 18; they have student grants and they earn extra money every now and then. In the alternative, the woman has stated that the amount of the savings amount was then linked to the income of the man and that a savings amount of € 200 per child per month is no longer in proportion to the current income of the man.

The man has reasoned contradicted the woman's statements.

5.12.3.
The court considers that the parties have made the following agreements with regard to the costs of the children:

The parties have agreed in the divorce settlement:

Article 1. 2.

“… ..

As of February 1, 2016 and as long as the children are minors and live with the mother, the husband pays the woman a maintenance allowance for the children of

€ 400 per child per month is paid as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing and / or maintenance of the woman. In addition, € 200 per child per month is deposited in a savings account in the name of the children to cover unforeseen expenses and what remains after completing the study or reaching the age of 22 if no studies are followed, will be forwarded to the child in question.

… .. ”

Article 1. 3.

“In principle, from the moment a child reaches the age of majority, the father pays the amount referred to in Article 1.2. said alimony to the child herself under Article 1: 395 a BW in a bank account designated by the child, unless the child is currently living with the mother.

…. ”

The parties have also agreed to the aforementioned settlement agreement of 11 February 2016:

Article 2. 1.

“Contrary to what the parties have agreed under article 1.3 of the divorce settlement in connection with the costs of the young adult children, the parties agree with each other as follows: from 1 October 2016 [the adult] will study and will in this context take out a loan with him from the Education Executive Agency, amounting to a maximum of € 1,000 per month.

...

Father contributes to the costs of study and maintenance for the young-adult children by fully covering the student debt accrued for both children and the obligations arising from this debt and paying them as his own debt, without prejudice to the relevant child who is a debtor for his / her accrued student debt.

… ”

Finally, in May 2019 the man made the following agreements with [the adult] and [the young adult] with regard to the maintenance contribution and saving (Exhibit 13 of the man). As of 1 September 2019, the man pays both children a contribution towards the cost of living and study of € 215 per child per month and deposits an amount of € 200 per child per month in the children's savings account. .

For the period from May to August 2019, the man paid a maintenance contribution of € 150 per month and a savings amount of € 50 per month for [the adult]. The woman has stated that the husband has not made any contribution to [the adult] for some time. For lack of further information on this point, the court assumes that this was in the period before 1 May 2019.

For [the young adult], the man paid a maintenance contribution of € 422.82 per month in the period from 28 June 2019 to 1 September 2019. The court assumes that the husband has paid the child maintenance of € 422.82 for [the young adult] to the woman before 28 June 2019.

With regard to the man's contribution to the costs of the children, based on the maintenance obligation of the man towards the children and partly in connection with the situation as per 1 May 2019, the court takes into account the maintenance contribution of € 215 , - per child per month. The court sees no reason to make a cut for the period from September 30, 2018 to May 1, 2019, since it is a relatively short period and the man has paid a higher amount of child maintenance for [the young adult], but a lower contribution - possibly no contribution at all - for [the adult].

These maintenance contributions for the children are not included in the man's capacity-less income, but are deducted according to the usual system from the capacity available for partner maintenance (item 140).

With regard to saving, the court does not take into account the amount of € 200 per child per month. Regarding the question what the parties have in mind with the arrangement in the divorce settlement and the settlement agreement, the man stated in the oral hearing that, among other things, saving until the children turned 18 was intended to give them some money. Furthermore, the man stated that saving came on top of maintenance costs. The target amount was € 10,000 per child, which amount was not intended to repay the student debt. The children's study would be partly financed by DUO. The man is now trying to keep the student debt of the children as low as possible by already covering their costs as much as possible.

Contrary to the statement of the husband that - now that the parties have agreed that the husband will have to pay off the student debt built up - he will have to reserve for it, the woman has stated that it is questionable whether this should be done at the moment.

Save € 200 per child per month. The student debt must only be paid off after the children's studies and if the man is going to recover financially in a few years' time, as he himself stated for the oral hearing, he can then make a reservation or pay off at that time.

In view of what the parties have agreed in the divorce settlement and the settlement agreement, as well as in view of the oral statements of the parties, seen in mutual context, the court does not currently take into account the man's saving for the children. In doing so, the court finds that the man has not stated, or at least not sufficiently substantiated, that there is a need to make a reservation now for the payment of the children's study debt. The man stated in oral hearing that he expects to be out of debt in three / four years. The Court of Appeal considers that space may then be created to reserve for the payment of the children's study debt. The court sees no reason to judge otherwise for the period from September 30, 2018 to [date of birth] 2019 (the day on which [the young adult] turned 18), since this concerns a relatively short period.

5.13.
The woman has withdrawn her complaint 3 in an incidental appeal so that this complaint no longer needs to be discussed.

5.14.
After deducting the aforementioned expenses from the aforementioned net disposable income, the man has a carrying capacity of € 874 per month. 60% of this is available for the payment of spousal maintenance. The amount of 2 x € 215 = € 430 per month in respect of the maintenance contribution for the children is deducted from this capacity.

Furthermore, taking into account the tax benefit that the husband enjoys when paying spousal maintenance, which benefit accrues to the wife, the husband has the capacity to pay a spousal maintenance of € 158 per month as of September 30, 2018. . Analogous to the statutory indexation, the court will increase this contribution as of 1 January 2019 and 1 January 2020.

5.15.
If and insofar as the husband has paid too much spousal maintenance to the wife on the basis of the contested and restored decision, the wife does not have to repay the overpayment to the husband now that the spousal maintenance is deemed to be in accordance with the wife's needs spent on the purpose for which it was paid.

Litigation costs

5.16.
The court will compensate the costs of the appeal on appeal, now that the parties are former husbands and the proceedings concern the woman's living expenses.

5.17.
The foregoing leads to the following decision.

5 Decision
The Council:

to the principal and occasional appeal:

quashes the order of the District Court of East Brabant of 6 March 2019, restored by order of 11 April 2019, only insofar as it concerns the living contribution of the woman,

and to that extent, once again,

amends the settlement agreement signed by the parties on February 11, 2016 and the order of the court of East Brabant of April 7, 2016, only insofar as it concerns the woman's living contribution,

stipulates that the husband must pay the wife as a living contribution:

- from September 13, 2018 until December 31, 2018, an amount of € 158 per month;

- from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019, an amount of € 161 per month;

- from 1 January 2020, an amount of € 165 per month,

to pay the future installments each time in advance;

declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

provides that the woman is not required to repay the maintenance contribution which has been overpaid to date on the basis of the contested decision;

otherwise ratifies the court's order;

compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings / both bodies, in that each party is to bear its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. H. van Winkel, C.N.M. Antens and K.A. Boshouwers and was pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar on March 12, 2020.