Pronunciation


Rotterdam District Court
Team family

case number: C / 10/574651 / FA RK 19-4498

Ordinance of 28 February 2020 on divorce

in the case of:

[woman's name], the woman,

residing in [place of residence of wife],

lawyer mr. H.J. Naber in Dordrecht,

against

[man's name], the man,

residing in [place of residence of man],

lawyer mr. A. Harent in Dordrecht.

The special curator in this case was:

Drs. C.O.M. Singendonk, behavioral scientist in Rotterdam, hereinafter referred to as the special curator.

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

the petition with attachments from the woman, received on 23 May 2019;

the F form on the part of the man dated July 17, 2019;

the F form of the woman's side dated 19 July 2019;

the statement of defense, also an independent request from the man with attachments, received on 29 July 2019;

the woman's F form dated 7 August 2019;

the report of findings of the special receiver of 26 November 2019;

the letter from the minor [name of minor 1].

1.2.
The oral hearing of the case took place on January 31, 2020. The following appeared:

the woman with her lawyer;

the man with his lawyer;

the special curator;

the Rotterdam-Dordrecht Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Council), represented at the hearing by [name].

1.3.
The minor [given names of the minor 1] has been given the opportunity to express her opinion, given her age. The minor made use of this.

1.4.
The minor [given names of minor 2] has not been given the opportunity to express his opinion, given his intellectual disability.

2 Facts
2.1.
The parties were married in Dordrecht on August 5, 1997.

2.2.
The minor children of the parties are:

[name of minor 2] (hereinafter: [first name of minor 2]), born on [date of birth of minor] 2004 in [place of birth],

[name of minor 1] (hereinafter: [first name of minor 1]), born on [date of birth of minor] 2006 in [place of birth].

2.3.
Due to an intellectual disability, [first name minor 2] stays in an institution. [first name minor 1] stays with the woman.

2.4.
By order of this court of 28 May 2019 in the context of the provisional relief measures, the special receiver has been appointed to represent [first name minor 1] both in and out of court.

2.5.
Parties have Dutch nationality.

Text

3 Appeal

3.1.
Separation

3.1.1.
The woman requests that the divorce be pronounced between the parties. She argues that marriage has been permanently disrupted.

3.1.2.
The man does not dispute the alleged permanent disruption and requests that the divorce be declared independently.

3.2.
Pursuant to Article 815 (2) of the Code of Civil Procedure (Rv), insofar as it is relevant here, an (introductory) petition for divorce must contain a parental plan with regard to the minor children of parties about whom they may or may not be exercise joint authority. Now that the parental plan has been formulated in law as a procedural requirement for a divorce petition, the court has the power to declare a spouse in the divorce petition inadmissible unless there are reasons to believe that the parental plan cannot reasonably be submitted (Article 815, paragraph six of the DCCP).

3.2.1.
No parental plan has been submitted by the parties in accordance with Article 815 (2) DCCP. From the documents submitted and the explanatory notes at the hearing, it has become apparent to the court that it is currently not reasonably possible for the parties to produce a parental plan that they both agree. The court will receive parties in their request for divorce with ancillary provisions.

3.2.2.
The divorce petition is granted, if based on the law.

3.3.
Residence

3.3.1.
The woman requests that the minor's primary residence [first name minor 1] be with her.

3.3.2.
The man does not object to this request.

4 Reasons of the Decision
3.3.3.
The court decides in accordance with the request, because this request has not been contested and is based on the law. It has not been shown that the interest of [first name minor 1] precludes this.

3.4.
Care plan

3.4.1.
The man requests to establish an arrangement for the distribution of care and upbringing duties (hereinafter: care arrangement), which means that, after being built up for this purpose, [first name minor 1] at least one weekend every fortnight, as well as part of the holidays and spend half of the holidays with the man.

3.4.2.
The woman puts forward a motivated defense.

3.4.3.
Because at the time of the provisional relief proceedings there was no contact between [first name minor 1] and the man, due to the presence of a conflict of interest, the special receiver was appointed by decision of 28 May 2019. Among other things, she was requested to enter into discussions with both [first name minor 1] and her parents in order to restore contact between [first name minor 1] and the man. As a result of these conversations, the special receiver has prepared a report. It follows that with [first name minor 1] there is a parental rejection that is increasingly hardening. Where at first there seemed to be an opening for contact, she completely rejects her father at the moment. Parents do not seem to understand how harmful this situation is for [first name minor 1]. Both for [first name minor 1] and for her brother [first name minor 2] it would be desirable for parents to talk to each other in some way to improve communication. The special curator is concerned about the children and who will defend their interests if parents remain in conflict.

3.4.4.
During oral treatment it was discussed that the man has regular contact with the underage son of the parties, who has not lived at home for years because of his mental disability. Therefore, the court does not have to judge a care scheme with [first name minor 2].

It is clear to the court that there is a very worrying situation with regard to [first name minor 1]. Despite the efforts of the special curator, no (build-up of) contact has been established between [first name minor 1] and the man. After the conversations with the special curator, there was one contact moment between the man and [first name minor 1] at the MacDonalds. Where the man hoped that this conversation would be an opening for further contact building, [first name minor 1] was not open to this. In fact, she doesn't want any contact with the man at the moment. Therefore, as the special curator indicates, there is parental rejection. The court also agrees with the special curator that the fact that [first name minor 1] currently rejects any contact with the man lies in the possibly long-standing struggle between the parents. If parents behave hostile to each other and speak ill of each other, a child comes into conflict with this loyalty. The child can then become trapped in such a way that it sees no other way out to make a choice for one parent. According to the court, it is also important that [first name minor 1] does competitive swimming and trains 6 times a week in addition to her competitions. The current partner of the woman is also the swimming coach of [first name minor 1]. During the oral hearing, it was discussed with the parties that having no contact with her father is a major threat to the psychological development of [first name minor 1]. After all, as the special curator has rightly pointed out, [first name minor 1] by rejecting her father also rejects part of himself.

3.4.5.
The court, together with the council and the special receiver, was shocked by the statement made by the woman during the oral hearing that [first name minor 1] wishes to have her surname changed to the surname of the new partner of the woman. The (non-rejecting) reaction of the woman to this statement by [first name minor 1] is even more worrying for the court. Children can love multiple people, but she has only one father and one mother. The court agrees with the council that the choice of [first name minor 1] for the woman's partner and for her father is worrying and that parents must find a way to shape their parenthood together.

3.4.6.
Furthermore, it has become apparent that no form of consultation is possible between parents. Both about [first name minor 1] and about [first name minor 2], the parties are unable to communicate about matters relating to both their children. Parents are stuck in a pattern where they fend off mutual communication and this is harmful to the children. As long as parties are unable to interact in a normal way, [first name minor 1] will not think differently about the man either. In addition, it is essential for [first name minor 1] that she feels accepted by her father, which currently does not seem to be the case. If adequate action is not taken, [first name minor 1] will become increasingly alienated from the man. This is not in the interest of (the development of) [first name minor 1].

3.4.7.
The court has discussed with parents that in order to bury their mutual struggle, they need more than mediation. Therapeutic intervention is necessary, especially for parents. After this, they agreed to participate in the Children from the Knel program. With this intervention, parents in a parent group will work on improving their mutual understanding. They will also gain insight into the effect of a divorce on children, whereby they will also experience the emotions that go with it. [first name minor 1] will receive support in a children's group with regard to the consequences of the divorce of her parents.

3.4.8.
Although the Council has considered and discussed the need for a supervision order, this is not (yet) relevant to them, given the willingness of the parties to work on improving the situation through the Children from the Knel program.

3.4.9.
In the interest of [first name minor 1], the court draws parents' attention to the remark of the special curator, that parents must ensure that they do not seek the solution in the conversations that [first name minor 1] is currently having with a psychologist. Parents must be and remain aware that they are the cause and the solution of the problem. They must not give [first name minor 1] the feeling that she is the cause of her current feelings and that she must find a solution for this herself. In that context, the court also points out to the parents' remark that if a child is in a pinch, the parents cannot sit still.

3.4.10.
During the oral hearing, the special curator has indicated that she will inform [first name minor 1] what has been discussed during the hearing and if necessary will conduct further discussions with her. The court will therefore not (yet) terminate the task of the special receiver.

3.4.11.
The court finds it important that [first name minor 1] is supported as much as possible in this very difficult situation. That is why the court will explain in understandable words for [first name minor 1] what the court has decided.

[first name minor 1], a few months ago you had a conversation with me as a judge about the divorce of your parents. You explained that you wanted to live with your mother. Your father agrees and that has now been arranged.

During that conversation you also said that you prefer not to have contact with your father because you did not have such good contact with him. You also enthusiastically told me about competitive swimming that you do. That costs a lot of time. By now I understand that your swimming coach is also your mother's new friend.

Your parents cannot talk to each other in a normal way and arrange things for you and [first name minor 2]. They argue about everything. I can imagine that you are very troubled and sad about that. It also seems very complicated for you to have to arrange all kinds of things and sometimes have to make difficult decisions, because your parents no longer do that together.

I asked the special curator Ms Singendonk to talk to you about the contact between you and your parents so that she could tell the court what you think is important. The special curator has also had contact with your parents. The special curator has not been able to make agreements with your parents about the things that are important to you and [first name minor 2].

Because your parents are unable to make agreements about you and [first name minor 2] together, the court has to make the decision. One of those decisions is the contact between you and your father. I know you still don't want to have contact with your father. You have good contact with your mother's new boyfriend. You even think about taking another surname.

Your parents went to court a month ago. Mrs. Singendonk was there too. An employee of the Child Protection Board was also present.

It has been discussed with your parents that the fact that they are still arguing and not talking to each other is bad for you and [first name minor 2]. It has also been discussed with your parents that a divorce for children is very complicated and often causes a lot of grief. It is your parents' duty to take this into account. They should do their utmost to be there for you and [first name minor 2] so that you don't have to worry about the consequences of your parents being divorced. It's okay to have a good relationship with your mom's new boyfriend, but that doesn't mean you won't see your dad anymore. As a judge, I know that it is important for children to have contact with both parents. That is good for your development. You have to trust me in that.

Your parents then said that they agree to talk to other parents and learn about how to get back together for you and [first name minor 2] without arguing. You can participate in a children's group that includes children who experience the same as you.

I have therefore decided that you and your parents will participate in this program Children from the Knel.

3.4.12.
As already considered, the parties have agreed that they will participate in the Children from the Knel program and will register for this with the following provider:

- Enver (formerly Stek Jeugdhulp),

website: www.stekjeugdhulp.nl,

e-mail: register@stekjeugdhulp.nl,

phone: 010-2023044,

location: Kralingseweg 463, 3065 RG Rotterdam.

3.4.13.
The court will arrest the decision on this point pending the outcome of this.

3.4.14.
Youth teams South Holland South will be requested to issue a grant decision for participation in the Children from the Knel program at Enver in Dordrecht.

3.5.
Maintenance fee

3.5.1.
The woman requests - after changes to this - a contribution to be paid by the husband in the costs of care and education of the minor [first name minor 1] (hereinafter also: child contribution) of € 88 per month and to be determined.

3.5.2.
The man requests independently to determine a child contribution for [first name minor 1] of € 88 per month from the date of the decision.

3.5.3.
It has been found that the parties have reached an agreement. The court will decide accordingly.

3.6.
Continued use of the house

3.6.1.
During the oral hearing, the woman withdraws her request for the continued use of the home. The request was rejected.

3.7.
Distribution

3.7.1.
Parties are married in general community of property.

3.7.2.
During the oral procedure, both parties withdrew their separate requests concerning the distribution of the community of property. The requests were rejected.

3.8.
Litigation costs

3.8.1.
Since no final decision is yet being made with regard to the care scheme, no decision has yet been made regarding the legal costs.


5 Decision

The court:

4.1.
speaks from the divorce between the parties, married on 05 August 1997 in Dordrecht;

4.2.
provides that the minor's primary place of residence [minor's first names] will be with the woman;

4.3.
stipulates that as of today the husband will pay the woman as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing of the minor [first name minor 1], for the future installments, each time in advance at € 88.00 per month;

4.4.
rejects requests regarding continued use of the home and division of the community;

4.5.
requests Youth Teams South Holland South to issue a grant decision for the Children from the Knel program at Enver in Dordrecht;

4.6.
states that the hearing of the case will be adjourned until 1 September 2020 PRO FORMA, pending further notification from the parties about the progress of the program Kinder uit de Knel and pending the answer to the question whether a continuation of the oral hearing is desirable is whether the matter can be settled further in writing;

4.7.
calls on the parties to forward the final report of Children from the Knel to the court;

4.8.
keeps any other decision.

This decision was made by mr. H.C.A. de Groot, judge, also children's judge, and pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar mr. L.M. de Witte on February 28, 2020.

An appeal can be lodged by the parties against this decision within three months after the date of this decision by submitting an appeal to the court of appeal in The Hague. A party not appearing at first instance may lodge an appeal within three months after the notification of this judgment to him / her in person or within three months after it has been served in another manner and has been publicly disclosed.
