Pronunciation


COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Civil and Tax Law Department

Team III (family and youth law)

case number: 200.267.450 / 01

case number court: C / 13/669380 / JE RK 19-640

Multi-Chamber Order of 10 March 2020 on

[the father] ,

residing in [place of residence],

applicant on appeal,

further to be called: the father,

lawyer: mr. A.S. Bodha in Amsterdam,

and

the certified institution Youth Protection Region Amsterdam,

Based in Amsterdam,

defendant on appeal,

to be called further: the GI.

Minors identified as interested parties are:

- [A] (hereinafter referred to as [Child A]);

- [B] (hereinafter referred to as [Child B]).

Furthermore, the following were interested:

[the mother] ,

residing in [place of residence],

hereinafter referred to as: the mother,

lawyer: mr. T.A. Bruins in Overveen.

The following has been designated as an informant:

- Altra, established in Amsterdam.

1 Proceedings

For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the Amsterdam District Court of 30 August 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1
The father appealed on 11 October 2019 to the aforementioned order of 30 August 2019.

2.2
The mother filed a statement of defense on 22 November 2019.

2.3
The court also received:

- a letter from the GI of 16 January 2020 with annexes, received on 20 January 2020;

- a journal message from the mother's side of January 17, 2020 with attachments, received on January 20, 2020;

- a journal message from the father of January 21, 2020 with attachments, received on the same date.

2.4
The chairman spoke to [child A] before the meeting.

2.5
The oral hearing took place on January 31, 2020. Published are:

- the father, assisted by his lawyer;

- the GI, represented by a colleague from the family manager;

- the mother, assisted by her lawyer.

2 Facts
3.1
From the now broken relationship of the mother and the father (hereinafter referred to as: the parents) - insofar as relevant here - were born:

- [child A], [in] 2006;

- [child B], [in] 2009 (hereinafter jointly referred to as: the children).

The parents exercise joint authority over the children. The children live with the father.

3.2
By decision of 4 September 2018, the children were placed under the supervision of the GI until 4 September 2019 at the request of the mother.

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1
The contested decision extended the supervision of the children at the corresponding request of the GI to 4 September 2020.

4.2
With the annulment of the contested decision, the father requests that the GI's request for an extension of the custody be extended.

4.3
The mother requests that the appeal requested by the father be dismissed and, as the court understands, ratify the contested decision.

4 Reasons of the Decision
5.1
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 260, first paragraph, in connection with Article 255, first paragraph, of the Civil Code (BW), the juvenile court judge can extend the supervision of a minor by a maximum of one year if a minor grows up in such a way that he or she development is seriously threatened, and:

the care that is necessary in connection with the removal of the threat for the minor or for his parents who exercise the authority is not or insufficiently accepted by them, and

b. the expectation is justified that the parents who exercise the authority within a term that is considered acceptable in view of the person and the development of the minor, are able to take responsibility for the care and education referred to in Section 1: 247 (2) of the Dutch Civil Code. are wearable.

5.2
The father argues that the grounds for extension of the custody are not available and that the juvenile court judge has therefore wrongly extended the custody.

He argues that although [child A] and [child B] have had a hard time separating their parents, they have now resumed their lives. They both do well at school. Sport plays an important role in their lives and they also perform well in that area. No child signals have been reported by the school, the general practitioner and other independent sources. The father would also prefer to have contact between the boys and their mother, but there is currently no room for this. The children need rest. Altra also concluded this after intensive months of supervision of both the parents and the children, during which more than fifteen conversations were held. Among other things, Altra advised the parents to register together for system therapy and to give the children the space and peace to recover, after which they can regain contact with their mother through therapy or by joining the system therapy of their parents. The father is afraid that if the children are forced to participate in a trauma treatment as part of a supervision order, or are forced to have contact with their mother as Arkin has indicated, this will have an adverse effect on them.

The father also points out that although the children have already been supervised as of September 4, 2018, it took many months before a family manager was appointed. The mere fact that the GI did nothing during the first supervisory period already argues against an extension. Even after the contested decision of 30 August 2019, no action has been taken by the GI. Apparently, the GI itself is not convinced that there is a serious threat in the development of the children.

The fact that the trauma treatment for the children has not got off the ground, the children still reject any form of contact with their mother and that this may possibly be detrimental to their development in the future, does not constitute sufficient grounds for supervision. father.

5.3
The mother argues that the father has frequently involved the children in the break up between the parents, causing the children to be totally upset. The father became furious when he heard that the mother no longer wanted to continue with him. He then told the children that the mother no longer wanted to continue with them, because she has a friend in [place]. When the mother went to pick up the person she had met in [place] at Schiphol on June 23, 2018, the father with [child A] suddenly stood in front of her. This incident made a big impression on [child A]. From that moment there has been little or no contact between the mother and the children. The father has sucked the children into his grief about the termination of the relationship and that is harmful to the children. He is not willing to make any rapprochement and does not respond to cues from the mother. The court rightly considered that it turned out that the struggle between the parents has hardened to such an extent that the children do not feel the space to show their emotions and to open themselves up for assistance and that trauma processing does not get off the ground.

The court, the Council and the GI have established that there is parental alienation or parental alienation. According to the mother, supervision and management from a supervision order is necessary, because the help necessary for the children is not provided without supervision.

5.4
The GI argues that the grounds for a supervision order are still present. The situation regarding [child A] and [child B] has remained unchanged and they still have no contact with their mother. In a conversation with the family manager, they recently indicated on 15 January 2020 that they did not want to see their mother. For the children it means that they are still threatened in their development because of the parental alienation that can cause problems with self-confidence, self-image and relationships as well as general problems with social-emotional and identity development and development of psychological problems. problems and personality disorders. Unlike the father, the GI is of the opinion that [child A] and [child B] do show worrying behavior with regard to contact and the relationship with and rejection of the mother. The continuing anger of [child A] and [child B] towards their mother is worrying. Discussion of contact recovery with [child A] also produces a violent physical reaction with him. The GI has the impression that [child A] and [child B] do not experience the emotional permission of the father to deal with the mother. Otherwise it cannot be explained that the children reject and reject their mother, while she has cared for them for so long and must have built up a bond with them.

The family is registered with Arkin's Relational Therapy Center. The GI regrets that they have been on the Youth Protection waiting list for a long time and are now back with Arkin, but sees Arkin's approach to contact restoration and system therapy as the most suitable aid for this family. The intake interview is scheduled for February 3, 2020. The GI considers a custody to be necessary because contact restoration between the mother and the children may have to be forced, whereby a legal framework will be necessary. The GI is not confident that the parents will start the process at Arkin even without supervision.

5.5
The court considers as follows. Supervision is a far-reaching measure, the application of which means interference with the family life of parent (s) and child. According to settled case-law, it cannot be excluded that a custody may be justified if the absence of access arrangements creates such aggravating conflicts or problems for the child that, by themselves or in combination with other circumstances, pose a serious threat to his moral or spiritual interests, and other means to counter this threat have failed or are expected to fail. In such a case, stringent requirements must be imposed on the imposition of the measure.

The documents in the file and the proceedings at the hearing show the following. The parents split up in mid-2018. Since then, there have been serious divorce issues between them. [child A] and [child B] were very sad about that. For some time now they have not wanted to have any contact with their mother, who has always taken care of them before. They are angry with her and feel rejected and abandoned by her. It is clear that the father explains the cause of the divorce to the mother.

The supervision of the children dates from 4 September 2018. Pending the appointment of a family manager, the parents have been referred by the Municipality [place of residence] to Altra for the Parenting Continues trajectory and for trauma processing for the children. First, Altra invested in the trust of [child A] and [child B]. Although this was partly successful, the children were unable to start a trauma treatment process, because the struggle between the parents has hardened; the parents are unable to stay out of the struggle and the reproaches and trust each other in parenting. Although parents both agree that the children should have contact with both parents, they are unable to create the conditions for the children to make this possible, Altra said in its June 2019 final report. Altra advises parents to :

- settle the divorce business disputes as soon as possible and not initiate new legal proceedings;

- both to ask for psychological and / or emotional support from an agency;

- register together for system therapy in order to jointly give a place to the past;

- Give [child A] and [child B] the space and peace to recover, after which they can regain contact with the mother through therapy or by joining the system therapy of parents.

After the supervision of the children in early September 2018, a family manager was only appointed in early July 2019, which was subsequently replaced by another family manager. The latter spoke to [child A] and [child B] on January 15, 2020, whereby they have indicated that they do not want to have contact with their mother. [child A] also made this known to the chairman of the court during the child discussion.

The children are doing well at school in accordance with the GI's family plan, updated on 25 November 2019, and the information on appeal. According to the information from the school about the previous school year, [child B] is involved in the lesson and has a good working attitude. He has friends in the class, is a very good footballer (recently admitted to Ajax's youth academy) and can work well with his classmates. His school results are good. Just after the divorce from the parents, he achieved lower cito scores, but then he grew back to high results. [child A] completed the first year of bilingual VWO with a good report mid last year. He also has friends and plays basketball at a high level. School does not notice the difficult home situation in its behavior.

5.6
The Court finds that the fact that [Child A] and [Child B] have categorically rejected any form of contact with their mother for some time is worrying. This is especially true now that the mother has always cared for and raised them before. However, the risk that the children will later experience one or more developmental problems, as the GI argues (see 5.4), does not necessarily mean that at this stage one can speak of a serious and concrete threat in the development of the children. Based on the standard in accordance with established case law (see 5.5 first paragraph), the circumstance that such problems may arise in children at a later age is not sufficient for this. Nor is this the case if the circumstances of the present case, in particular the problems of divorce of the parents, the sorrow of the children and their feelings towards their mother, are taken into account. The GI's assertion that there is parental alienation or parental alienation is not supported by an official diagnosis, so it is not clear whether this is actually the case.

In view of the foregoing and taking into account that the children are doing well and are developing well, the high requirements imposed on the imposition of a far-reaching measure as a supervision are not met. This may have been different when this measure was imposed in September 2018, when the prospect of dealing with the mother even caused violent physical reactions in the children, at least [child A]. At the time of the contested (extension) decision, that situation was no longer relevant, as is clear from the documents and the chairman of the court was able to establish himself during the child interview. It appeared that the children had a very turbulent time after the divorce in mid-2018, but that they are now in calmer waters and have calmed down. They are doing well at school, both cognitively and socially, and they are also (very) successful in sports. There are no concerns in themselves about the care and upbringing situation of the father, nor have any child signals justifying the imposition of the measure at this stage. In those circumstances, the Court of Appeal held that the grounds for the extension of the custody were not present at the time of the contested order and that they are not currently. This means that the court will annul the decision of which appeal and will reject the GI's preliminary request for an extension of the supervision order.

5.7
This is without prejudice to the responsibility of both parents to ensure that their severely disturbed relationship is normalized, thereby creating the conditions for untaxed contact between the children and each parent, and in particular restoring contact with the mother. The key to this lies primarily with the parents. It is of great importance that the parents will follow Altra's advice and will (among other things) fully commit themselves to the process at Arkin or another care agency. Both parents agreed at the hearing to cooperate in this process, even if the supervision is not extended.

5.8
This leads to the next decision.

5 Decision
The Council:

annuls the decision of which an appeal is made and, again, as follows:

rejects the GI's request for an extension of the supervision of [child A] and [child B];

requests the registrar to transmit a copy of this judgment to the registrar of the Amsterdam District Court, family and youth law team, for the attention of the public register, in accordance with the provisions of the Decree on authority registers.

This decision was made by mr. J.M.C. Louwinger-Rijk, mr. A. van Haeringen and mr. S.F.M. Wortmann, in the presence of the Registrar, and was publicly pronounced on March 10, 2020 by the oldest counsel.
