Pronunciation


18 977 PW
Date of judgment: March 17th 2020

Central Board of Appeal

Single room

Judgment on appeal against the judgment of the court of Rotterdam of 5 January 2018, 17/3246 (attacked judgment)

Parties:

[appellant] in [place of residence] (appellant)

the mayor and aldermen of Rotterdam (college)

1 Proceedings

On behalf of the appellant, Mr. E.R. Weegenaar, lawyer, appeal.

The College has lodged a statement of defense.

The investigation at the hearing took place on February 4, 2020. Mr. Weegenaar appeared on behalf of the appellant. The college was represented by mr. R.J.M. Codrington.

2 Facts

1. The Council assumes the following facts and circumstances relevant to this case.

1.1.
The appellant has lived at address X (the house) since February 2016. She was registered at that address in the Register of Persons from 1 March 2016. Her son owns the house.

1.2.
On 9 August 2016, the appellant reported to the Municipal Executive to request assistance under the Participation Act (PW).

1.3.
By decision of 16 November 2016, after objection was maintained by decision of 19 April 2017, the Board granted assistance to appellant according to the standard for a single person from 9 August 2016. The Commission has lowered the standard under Article 27 of the PW by 20% of the net minimum wage on the ground that the appellant has no housing costs, because her son pays those costs and there is no real repayment obligation.

2. In the attacked judgment, the court declared the appeal against the contested decision unfounded.

3 Appeal

3. On appeal, the appellant turned against the attacked judgment on the grounds to be discussed below.

4 Reasons of the Decision

4. The Council makes the following assessment.

4.1.
The period to be assessed runs from August 9, 2016 to November 16, 2016.

4.2.
The dispute is whether the Board has, on good grounds, lowered the standard by 20% of the statutory net minimum wage on the ground that the appellant had no housing costs.

4.3.1.
Pursuant to Article 5, opening words and under c, of the PW, the social assistance standard consists of the standard applicable to the person concerned, less an increase or decrease determined by the administrative authority.

4.3.2.
Pursuant to Article 27 of the PW, the Municipal Executive may, insofar as it is relevant here, set the standard lower insofar as the interested party has lower generally necessary costs of living than what the standard provides for as a result of his living situation.

4.4.
The administrative body has discretion with regard to the application of Article 27 of the PW and can formulate a policy to implement Article 27 of the PW.

The Commission has laid down these policy rules in the Policy Rules for Reducing Living Conditions and for school-leavers Rotterdam 2016 (Policy Rules).

4.4.1.
Article 2 of the policy rules stipulates that the reduction is determined as a percentage of the statutory net minimum wage as referred to in Article 37, first paragraph, of the PW, unless these policy rules explicitly deviate from this.

4.4.2.
Article 3, first paragraph, preamble and under a, of the policy rules stipulate that the Board, pursuant to Article 27 of the PW, sets the standard referred to in, insofar as relevant here, Article 21 of the PW lower for the single person. of 21 years or without a cost-sharing inmate. The second paragraph, preamble and under b, stipulate that the first paragraph applies if the interested party, insofar as relevant here, lives in a house to which housing costs are associated, but which are not paid by the interested party. The third paragraph stipulates that the reduction referred to in the first paragraph is 20%.

4.4.3.
Article 5 of the policy rules stipulates that the Commission can deviate from these policy rules insofar as their application, in view of the intentions of the PW and the policy rules, will lead to unfairness of a serious nature.

4.5.
The appellant has argued that she did have housing costs during the period to be assessed, since an agreement of 1 March 2016 with her son states that she must repay housing costs advanced by him.

4.6.
This appeal ground is unsuccessful. In the aforementioned agreement of 1 March 2016, it is stated succinctly that the costs for VVE, gas, water and electricity are shared equally between appellant and her son, that the son will probably pay the part of appellant until the end of December 2016 and that appellant agrees to have those costs reimbursed to her son. This means that no specific repayment obligation has been agreed upon. Moreover, in view of the proceedings at the hearing, it has been established that the appellant has not yet paid back the living costs advanced by her son under the agreement, and therefore has not paid them back in the period to be assessed.

4.7.
The Commission was therefore able to take the view that the appellant had lower generally necessary costs of life during the period to be assessed as a result of his housing situation. The reduction of the assistance by 20% of the net minimum wage is in accordance with the Policy Rules. This policy is not in conflict with Article 27 of the PW. It is not manifestly unreasonable that according to the policy that the reduction of the social assistance standard is linked to the statutory minimum wage (which is equivalent to the married standard) (compare ECLI: NL: CRVB: 2018: 3382).

4.8.
The mere unsupported claim by the appellant that she ended up in a vulnerable position as a result of her divorce does not lead to the opinion that there are special circumstances that led the Commission to apply the hardship clause of Article 5 of the Policy Rules or application of Article 4:84 of the General Administrative Law Act should have deviated from its policy.

4.9.
The appeal is unsuccessful, so the attacked judgment must be confirmed.

5. There is no reason for an order to pay the legal costs.

5 Decision
The Central Board of Appeal confirms the attacked judgment.

This statement was made by A.J. Sheep, in the presence of J.B. Beerens as registrar. The decision was pronounced in public on March 17, 2020.

(signed) A.J. Sheep

(signed) J. B. Beerens