Pronunciation


SUPREME COURT OF THE NETHERLANDS

CIVIL ROOM

Number 19/02804

Date March 27, 2020

DECISION

In the case of

[the mother], residing in [place of residence],

APPLICANT for cassation,

hereafter: the mother,

lawyer: N.C. from Steijn,

against

[the father], residing in [place of residence],

DEFENDANT in cassation,

hereafter: the father,

lawyer: M.E. Bruning.

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings in factual bodies, the Supreme Court refers to:

orders in case C / 16/447294 / FO RK 17-1607 and C / 16/447294 / FO RK 17-1608 of the Central Netherlands court of 26 January 2018, 25 June 2018 and 19 July 2018;

the decisions in case 200.248.241 / 01 of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Appeal of 18 December 2018 and 12 March 2019.

The mother lodged an appeal in cassation against the decision of the court. The cassation appeal and the supplementary petition are attached to this decision and form part thereof. The father has lodged a statement of defense for reference.

The Opinion of Advocate General M.L.C.C. Lückers rejects the appeal in cassation.

The mother's lawyer responded to that conclusion in writing.

2 Facts
2.1
The following can be assumed in cassation.

(i) Parties are the parents of a daughter born in 2017 (hereinafter: the daughter).

(ii) Since the daughter was born, the mother was the only one who exercised parental authority over her by operation of law.

(iii) After obtaining alternative authorization from the court, the father acknowledged the daughter on November 14, 2018.

(iv) By order of July 5, 2018, the court placed the daughter under supervision for a period of one year. This decision was upheld on appeal.

2.2.1
In this procedure, the father has requested, among other things, that he be entrusted with custody of the daughter together with the mother. The court granted that request.

2.2.2
The court confirmed the court's order. To this end, it considered:

5.6 The council has advised for oral hearing to maintain joint custody of [the daughter]. The current situation, in which the father is banned from the life of [the daughter] and in which, according to the council, there is even parental alienation, is created exclusively by the mother. Due to the mother's fear of the father and her resistance to him, [the daughter] grows up with a negative image of the father. The council also does not see that this situation will improve in the short term. The mother refuses any help other than the help she deems appropriate. In addition, the mother does not act in the interest of [the daughter] by seeking out the media and publicity. The council is therefore also very concerned about [the daughter]. The council therefore does not refer to the daily care of [the daughter] but to her long-term personality development. To overcome this situation, the council is even considering requesting a removal from home of [the daughter].

5.7
The court considers as follows. With the mother, the court is of the opinion that there is an unacceptable risk that [the daughter] will get stuck or lost between the parents without improvement expected in the foreseeable future. In principle, this statement should mean that only the mother should have authority over [the daughter]. Nevertheless, in this case the court is of the opinion that it is in the interest of [the daughter] that the parents have and keep the custody together. After all, the mother in no way offers an opening to the father to be involved in the life of [the daughter]. She goes so far as to downplay the role of fathers in general, and the father in particular, in the lives of children and seek publicity about this. The court has not found any indication or prospect that the position of the mother will change on this point. Nor has it been found that the mother has called in help to remove her resistance to contact with the father, even if this only concerns contact with regard to [the daughter]. (…). In doing so, she grossly neglects her obligation to promote the development of ties between [the daughter] and her father. The court is of the opinion that this causes the mother to act so clearly against the interest of [the daughter] that it would be irresponsible that she alone has authority over [the daughter]. The court considers this decision to be justified, even if the so-called clamp or lost criterion is met, because [the daughter] has been placed under the supervision of the GI. ”

3 Reasons of the Decision
3.1.1
Part 2 of the plea complains that the Court of Appeal, in its judgment cited in 2.2.2 above, assumes an error of law. If the so-called "clamping criterion" is met, the request to entrust the parents with joint custody of the child must be rejected. This does not alter the fact that the mother would act against the interests of the daughter or that the daughter has been placed under the supervision of the certified institution, according to the part.

3.1.2
Art. 1: 253c paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code stipulates that the parent of the child who is authorized to have custody and who has never exercised custody jointly with the mother from whom the child was born may request the court (among other things) to provide the parents with joint custody of the to burden the child. Paragraph 2 provides that, if the request is intended to entrust the parents with joint custody and the other parent does not agree to joint custody, the request shall be refused only if:

a. there is an unacceptable risk that the child would become trapped or lost between the parents and it is not expected that sufficient improvement will occur in the foreseeable future, or

b. rejection is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child.

The ground for rejection mentioned under a. Is in practice referred to as the 'clamping criterion'.

3.1.3
Art. 1: 253c BW for unmarried parents forms the counterpart of the regulation of parental authority after dissolution of the marriage. In the latter situation, the basic principle is that the parents continue to exercise custody of their underage children together (Section 1: 251 (2) of the Dutch Civil Code). Based on art. 1: 251a paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, however, the judge can determine that custody of a child belongs to one parent, if the constraint criterion is met or a change of authority is otherwise necessary in the interest of the child.

3.1.4
Although the starting points of art. 1: 251a BW (joint authority) and 1: 253c BW (one-headed authority) are therefore opposite, in both cases (the retention or acquisition of) joint authority is the starting point, and one-headed authority the exception. According to the legislative history, the grounds for rejecting a request for joint authority in art. 1: 253c paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in accordance with the grounds for the allocation of one-headed authority after divorce (Article 1: 251a, paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code). This means that both provisions should be interpreted in the same way.

3.1.5
The part raises the question whether the judge applies art. 1: 253c paragraph 2 BW still has discretion if the clamping criterion is met. It points out that, in such a case, according to the text of the provision, the request for joint custody is rejected.

This explanation is incorrect. It has been determined that the said request will only be rejected on the two grounds mentioned. It does not follow that, if one of those grounds arises, the judge is obliged to reject the request. Furthermore, the explanation defended by the part is not in accordance with the text of art. 1: 251a paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, which states that the judge can grant unilateral authority to a parent if one of the grounds mentioned occurs. From that formulation it follows that the judge, even if the clamping criterion is met, has room to maintain joint authority.

3.1.6
This explanation is consistent with the premise that decisions such as these must take utmost account of the best interests of the child. In a case like this, in which the custodial parent does not in any way provide the other parent with an opening to be involved in the child's life, assigning joint custody is one of the tools that the judge should be able to use to realize the right to family life between the child and the other parent. Although joint custody carries the risk of the child becoming trapped between the two parents, unilateral authority leads to the exclusion of the other parent from the child's life. Judging by the situation at the time of his decision, the judge must then have the leeway to estimate which of the two evils is likely to harm the child's best interests least.

3.1.7
So the part fails.

3.2
Nor can the other complaints of the plea lead to cassation. The Supreme Court does not have to motivate why it came to this judgment. In assessing these complaints, it is not necessary to answer questions that are important for the unity or development of the law (see art. 81 paragraph 1 RO).

4 Decision
The Supreme Court dismisses the appeal.

This decision was made by Councilors E.J. Numann as chairman, A.M.J. van Buchem-Spapens, T.H. Tanja-van den Broek, H.M.Wattendorff and F.J.P. Lock, and pronounced in public by Councilor C.E. du Perron on March 27, 2020.

Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice, March 12, 2019, ECLI: NL: HR: 2019: 2197.

See Parliamentary Papers II 2007/08, 29353, no. 22, p. 1 and Parliamentary Papers I 2007/08, 29353, C, p. 3 and 4.

Cf. HR 17 January 2014, ECLI: NL: HR: 2014: 91, legal ground. 3.5.