Pronunciation


COURT OF AMSTERDAM
Civil and Tax Law Department

Team III (family and youth law)

case numbers: 200.258.907 / 01 and 200.258.912 / 01

case number court: C / 15/262563 / FA RK 17-4574

Multi-Chamber Order of 10 March 2020 on

[the man] ,

residing in [place of residence],

applicant in the main appeal,

defendant in the cross-appeal,

further to be called: the man,

lawyer: mr. J.A. the Kroon-Comley in Utrecht,

and

[the woman] ,

residing in [residence], municipality [municipality],

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in the cross-appeal,

further to be called: the woman,

lawyer: mr. B.K.M. Thuijs in Amsterdam.

1 Proceedings

For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of Noord-Holland of 6 February 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1
The man appealed on 3 May 2019 to the aforementioned decision of 6 February 2019.

2.2
On 27 June 2019, the woman filed a statement of defense also containing an incidental appeal.

2.3
The man filed a statement of defense on the cross-appeal on 7 August 2019.

2.4
The following documents were also received at the court:

- a journal message from the man of 2 October 2019 with appendices (exhibits 13-24), received on 3 October 2019;

- a journal message from the woman of October 7, 2019 with attachments (P to X), received on October 8, 2019;

- a journal message from the woman of 8 October 2019 with attachments (adjusted production U, as well as Y and Z), received the same day.

2.5
The oral hearing took place on October 17, 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. Both lawyers submitted pleading notes at the hearing.

2 Facts
3.1
The parties were married [in] 2002 in the municipality of [X]. Their marriage was dissolved by registration of the divorce decision of 6 February 2019 on 6 May 2019 in the registers of civil status.

3.2
The parties are the parents of [the minor], born on [date] 2002 in [place of birth]. [the minor] lives with the woman.

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1
The contested decision of 6 February 2019 provides, insofar as it is currently relevant, that:

the man must always pay in advance to the woman as a contribution towards the costs of care and upbringing of [the minor]:

- € 767 per month from the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status, until the date of delivery of the matrimonial home;

- € 652 per month from the date of delivery of the matrimonial home, but no earlier than from the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status;

the man must always pay in advance to the woman as living allowance:

- € 1,100 gross per month from the date of registration of the divorce order in the registers of civil status, until the date of delivery of the matrimonial home;

- € 995 gross per month from the date of delivery of the matrimonial home, but no earlier than from the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status.

Furthermore, the court has ordered the manner of distribution of the matrimonial property community existing between the parties in the manner as under paragraph 2.6. of the contested decision was considered. Insofar as it is important in appeal, the court states under legal consideration 2.6. under “Ad h) the loans of the parents of the woman” state the following: “(…) that the loan from her parents of € 15,000, which the woman has made, has not been established, in contrast to the reasoned dispute by the man. . (…) The debt to the woman's parents on the reference date was € 5,652.55. (…), Leaving € 5,306.80. Each of the parties is obliged to pay half of the latter amount (therefore € 2,653.40); the man must therefore pay € 2,653.40 to the woman ”.

The court rejected the request by the husband to determine that he is entitled to a return from the matrimonial property community, or that he has a claim for compensation against the wife, in respect of an injury compensation.

4.2
In principle, the man requests the appeal, as far as practicable in stock, with annulment of the contested decision to the extent that:

I. the husband owes the wife a contribution towards the costs of care and education of [the minor] of € 270 per month from the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status;

II. the woman's request for a living allowance is rejected;

III. the woman's request for repayment by the husband of half of her parents' loan for the maintenance of [the minor] and herself in the period from 17 April 2017 to 8 September 2017 is rejected;

IV. the husband is entitled to a reprise from the matrimonial property community in the amount of € 10,000 or to determine that he has a compensation claim on the wife in the amount of € 5,000.

In summary, the woman requests the appeal - in summary - to declare the man inadmissible or, at least, to reject his requests and to ratify the contested decision.

4.3
In an incidental appeal, the woman requests, as far as practicable with stock, to annul the contested decision insofar as it concerns the distribution of the debt to the parents of the woman in the amount of € 15,000 and again to provide an conclusive determination that the man is also held to pay off this marital debt up to an amount of € 7,500, or up to an amount to be further determined by the court in good justice.

In her occasional appeal, the man requests the woman to be declared inadmissible or to reject the woman's request.

4 Reasons of the Decision
5.1
The man has lodged three complaints in principal appeal. Complaint 1 refers to child and spousal maintenance, complaint 2 to the loan (s) of the woman's parents and complaint 3 to personal injury benefit. The woman has lodged two complaints in an appeal. Grief 1 relates to the care discount, complaint 2 to the loan from the woman's parents for the renovation of the house.

After the oral hearing, the parties informed the court by news letter of 11 November 2019 that they - in summary - have reached an agreement on the disputes regarding the division of their matrimonial property, that the husband has withdrawn his request with regard to the payment of grief and that both parties have submitted their requests. with regard to loans from the parents of the woman. For this reason, the grievances 2 and 3 of the man and the grievance 2 of the woman no longer need to be dealt with.

The man's complaint 1 and the woman's complaint 1 lend themselves to joint treatment.

5.2
The parties are currently still disputing the contributions to be paid by the man in the costs of care and education of [the minor] (hereinafter: child maintenance) and the contribution to be paid by the man in the living costs of the woman. The court will deal with these disputes successively.

Child support

5.3
The court calculated the needs of [the minor] at € 741 per month in 2017 and, indexed to 2019, at € 767 per month. This is based on a net disposable income (NBI) on the side of the man of € 4,174 per month and on the side of the woman of € 683 per month. The court considered that the woman was unable to contribute to [the minor's] costs, but that the man was fully able to meet [the minor's] needs. Until the date of delivery of the matrimonial home, a care discount percentage has not been taken into account and from that date a care discount of 15% has been taken into account and the child contribution has therefore been set at € 652 per month.

5.4
The man argues that in determining the amount of his income, the court wrongly took into account an amount of € 1,500 net per month in income as a plasterer within his brother's company. There is only income from his employment with KLM. The man has back problems and is physically unable to do plaster work. Between 2010 and 2014 he worked for the woman's brother for a few more years, but from 2014 that was no longer physically possible either. The man occasionally helps his brother in his company with some lighter chores on his days off, but this does not involve plaster work and he does not receive payment for this. The app messages and the notebook that the woman has submitted relate to these activities. The notebook contains information about measuring spaces and quotations, not an hour registration of hours worked by him. The man works in shifts at KLM. In view of his schedule, he cannot help his brother often or more often. Nor do the parties' expenses indicate that they had a family income of nearly € 5,000 per month. The parties made relatively cheap purchases, for example at IKEA, and bought installment white goods. There are also loans. All household costs, including fixed costs, groceries and petrol costs, were charged to the parties' bank accounts. (Very) small expenses were also debited and parties withdrew money from an ATM.

Nor does the man agree with the court's consideration that while he was still working with his brother-in-law (in the years 2001-2013), he worked there 20 hours a week. His extra income was small and averaged € 490 gross per month over this period. Assuming a net salary of € 22.50 per hour (gross approximately € 35 per hour), this amounts to approximately 3 to 3.5 hours per week.

5.5
The woman is of the opinion that the court has rightly taken into account additional income in addition to that from KLM's employment. The man also worked as a window cleaner for her brother from 2001 to 2014 and in recent years has been doing plaster work with his brother. The woman points to the documents submitted by the man that relate to his personal injury case, in which - in summary - it is written that at the time of the accident in 2010 the man had income as a window cleaner. The man also carried out these activities after the accident. Thanks to his shift work at KLM, the man can work many hours flexibly. He also often reported sick to KLM in order to be able to carry out large jobs. The plastering work is evident from the odd job books, in which the odd jobs and the price agreements were kept, and the app messages between the parties. The income from this work was spent on costs that can be paid in cash, such as designer clothes, jewelery, perfume, watches, Playstations, computers, weekends and the like.

5.6
The court considers as follows. In support of her assertion that the husband not only has income from KLM's employment, but also income from plasterers in his brother's company, the woman pointed to the notebook from which she submitted parts and app messages. between parties. According to the man, it concerns the administration of his brother. He did the surveying for the budget of a job, after which his brother made quotes. However, this statement from the man is not credible in light of the app messages submitted by the woman. From these reports it can be concluded that the man also performs other activities. For example, on August 30, 2016 at 15.03, the woman sends a message to the man: “must all that be tiled”, to which the man replies: “Yes, he is going to tile the bathroom” and then at 18.02: “Ready we are going to clean up and load the car. ” On August 30, 2016, at 5:01 pm, the man reports to the woman: “We are now starting to spray. that takes about an hour. Then clean up. ” and then at 7.18 pm "Joo, we're done with the checkout and home quickly." On November 9, 2016 the man reports at 5:28 pm: “Go eat you will come later”, after which the woman asks at 6:59 pm: Joo how is he going there? The man then responds at 19.04: "Last tile then home". The app reports for January 2017 also indicate that the man is working. On January 26, 2017, the woman asks at 2:07 pm: “(…) how are things going there”, after which the man responds at 2:08 pm: “Will it be ready almost ready last time”.

Furthermore, from the report of [the minor] about his internship with the brother of the man, in connection with the overview submitted by the woman at first instance as production 9 about the activities of the man, that the man does not, or at least insufficiently has been disputed, it is concluded that the man works for his brother. The man has insufficiently substantiated that this is no longer the case. The court also ignores his claim that he is unable to perform (plasterers) activities due to back problems. After all, that he had surgery on his hernia in 2008 and 2009 and had a moped accident in 2010, this does not mean that he would not be able to perform these activities at the moment. After all, the aforementioned app messages indicate that he is still performing work. In addition, the man himself writes to his personal injury attorney in 2015 that he has nothing wrong with his back and that he has recovered from the protrusion of an intervertebral disc. From the letters from the company doctor submitted by the man i.o. Nor does it follow with KLM and the physiotherapist that the man is currently unable to perform (plasterers) activities, since these letters deal with complaints from the past. Nor does Mr [H] 's statement lead to any other decision, because this statement does not exclude the man from performing work elsewhere. It also follows from the app messages that the man is working at different times. His shifts at KLM apparently enable him to do so.

The court ignores the statement of the man that it is not plausible that there is black income because the parties have not yet repaid loans. These are loans from 2006/2008 for small amounts, which, according to the woman, were taken out for a purchase from IKEA and BCC.

In view of the foregoing, it remains to be left open whether and, if so, to what extent the extra income has been spent on luxury items, as the woman has argued, but the man has disputed.

The court will therefore take into account income from (plastering) activities. Now that the man has not provided any insight into the scope of his (plastering) activities, the court will estimate these. The woman has not substantiated her - disputed by the husband - claim that he works for his brother's company for 60 hours a month. In view of the fact that the man has a full-time job at KLM, the court considers an additional workload of 15 hours per week to be very high. On the other hand, the court does not consider it plausible that the man would give up his work for his brother-in-law if he started to earn less with his brother. From the submitted declarations for the years 2002 to 2013, it follows that the man earned an average of € 6,380 per year gross with his brother-in-law. In view of the above, the court will estimate the income from the additional activities at € 6,000 net per year.

There is no dispute between the parties that the taxable salary of the man as a result of his employment with KLM amounted to € 46,511. Based on the aforementioned income and taking into account the man's entitlement to the general tax credit and the employed person's tax credit, his NBI amounted to € 3,174 per month in 2017.

The court ignores the statement of the man that the calculation of the needs of [the minor] should not take into account income on the part of the woman. After all, prior to the submission of the petition, the woman had income from employment or unemployment benefits. The fact that she probably had no income just at the time of submission does not mean that the income earned for this had no influence on the needs of [the minor]. For the NBI of the woman in 2017, the court will assume the amount calculated by the court of € 683 per month. The net disposable family income of the parties is therefore € 3,857 per month.

Based on the above (rounded), the requirement of [the minor] according to the table “Own share of parents in the costs of children” of July 2017 is € 571 per month. Indexed to 2019, his requirement is € 591 per month.

5.7
The court must then assess to what extent each of the parties should contribute to the needs of [the minor]. Like the court, the court will determine the ability to pay according to the guideline, as stated in the 2019 Treme Report, using the formula 70% x [NBI - (0.3 NBI + 950)].

The woman has stated that she has no income and cannot contribute to the costs of [the minor]. Until the summer of 2015, she worked as a catering employee for a few hours a week. Subsequently, she received unemployment benefits from August 2015 to April 2017. After working for a short period, she received another unemployment benefit. This ended in October 2018. She then carried out cleaning work in her brother's company for several months, but she has been unemployed since April 2019. The man believes that on the side of the woman, an income of € 15,000 gross per year should be taken into account. During the marriage she always worked and [the minor] is almost adult.

Given the fact that the woman has worked during marriage, her age and the current labor market, the Court is of the opinion that the woman should reasonably be considered capable of earning an income equal to her past income. The man has submitted various income tax returns, showing that the woman had an average gross income of € 8,642 over the years 2002 through 2009 and 2012 through 2014. It has also been shown that prior to the divorce proceedings, the woman received a WW benefit of € 667.40 gross per month. The court will therefore assume an income of € 700 gross per month (excluding holiday allowance). Since the woman would also qualify for additional social assistance benefits with this employment income (in the event that no maintenance is paid), no contribution obligation on the part of the woman will be established.

On the side of the man, the court assumes a tax salary of € 47,189 for KLM's income in 2018. Taking into account his net income from plastering work of € 6,000 net per year and his entitlement to general tax credit and employed person's tax credit, his NBI amounts to € 3,268 per month. Based on the carrying capacity formula, his carrying capacity then amounts to € 937 per month. He can fully meet the needs of [the minor].

5.8
The woman has argued that the court wrongly took into account the 15% care discount because the man has hardly any contact with [the minor]. According to the man, he sees [the minor] once every two weeks.

The court will take into account a care discount of 5%, since it is in any case established that the man cares for [the minor] less than one day a week, which amounts to € 30 (5% of the need of € 591, -). The contribution to be paid by the man will be set at € 561.

5.9
In his letter of October 2, 2019, from September 2019, at least from [date] 2020, the man requests that the date on which [the minor] turns 18 years of age take into account [the minor's own income] of € 500 per month. . The court will reject this request. The neediness of the children does not play a role in determining the maintenance obligation of parents. They are liable for maintenance towards their children under the age of 21, even if those children can - partly - provide for their own subsistence, for example by working (Article 1: 392 paragraph 2 of the Dutch Civil Code for minor children and Article 1: 395a of the Dutch Civil Code for young adults. children). Although under certain circumstances (part of) a child's own income is taken into account when determining the amount of the contribution of the parent liable for maintenance, the Court sees no reason for this in this case, if only because [the minor] is still a minor and it cannot be established with certainty that [the minor] still has his own income on the date he turns 18 and, if so, how much.

Partner maintenance

5.10
The man disputes that the woman's need can be determined on the basis of the Court standard. Although he has not substantiated this statement and the Court standard, which takes the net disposable family income during the marriage as a starting point, in principle gives a clear and in practice easy to use criterion that leads to a real estimate of the need of the maintenance creditor, In the present case, the court will determine the woman's needs on the basis of the list of needs submitted by her on appeal, which is accompanied by underlying documents. Based on this list, her requirement amounts to € 1,816.73 per month. This does not yet take into account groceries, personal care costs, holidays, etc., according to the woman. She is of the opinion that the court has correctly determined her need at least € 2,470 per month, which is equal to 60% of the family income. Although the woman speaks of a gross monthly amount, the court understands that she means a net monthly amount, because the amount of € 2,470 is derived from the net disposable family income of € 4,116 per month calculated by the court.

The man has contested the stated costs for rent, groceries, fuel costs, beach house and pets. The court does not consider the increased rent of € 967 to be unreasonably high. This is almost equal to the amount of rent that is taken on the man's side. With the exception of the messages, the Court of Appeal considers the other burdens charged by the woman, but disputed by the husband, to be sufficiently substantiated, in view of the documents brought into the proceedings. In doing so, the court takes into account that with her current income the woman cannot combat all the stated costs. However, that does not change the fact that there may be costs incurred during the marriage that are part of the marriage-related need. The man has not disputed that during the marriage parties had a car and a beach house and that there were pets. In the absence of further substantiation by the woman, the court will take into account the costs of groceries, personal care and holidays, with an amount of € 300 per month. The total net monthly requirement of the woman is thus (rounded) € 2,117.

5.11
The man has further argued that the woman could support herself. As the court in ro. 5.7, the woman should be reasonably able to earn € 700 (gross) per month in income. In that case, her remaining gross requirement amounts to € 2,763 per month, indexed to € 2,861 in 2019.

5.12
With regard to the man's ability to pay, the court of appeal for KLM's income is based on the fiscal wages for 2018 of € 47,189 and his income from plastering work of € 6,000 net per year. On the burden side, account is taken of € 1,000 per month in rent, € 145 per month in health insurance premium, € 32 per month deductible and € 561 per month in child support and € 30 care costs. It is no longer in dispute between parties that the man paid € 154 per month in life insurance premium for the months of May and June 2019.

The foregoing implies that from the date of registration in the registry of civil status until June 30, 2019, the man has a carrying capacity of € 180 per month and as of July 1, 2019 a carrying capacity of € 326 per month.

5.13
The court will attach the capacity and needs calculations to the decision.

Finally

5.14
On the basis of the foregoing, with annulment of the contested order to that extent, the court will set the child contribution to be paid by the man to the woman at € 561 per month as of 6 May 2019 and the child contribution to be paid by the man to the woman. contribution to be paid in the cost of living at € 180 per month from 6 May 2019 to 30 June 2019 and at € 326 per month from 1 July 2019.

Because these contributions are lower than the contributions determined by the court, it must be examined whether an obligation on the part of the woman to repay what she has received in excess of the maintenance contribution can reasonably be accepted. In this context, the court considers that the woman stated at the hearing that she hardly has any balance in a bank account. However, it follows from production U and the adjusted production U on the part of the woman that an amount of € 35,122.99 is held by the notary for both parties. The court therefore considers the woman capable of repaying the amounts received by her.

5 Decision
The Council:

in principal and occasional appeal:

quashes the order whose appeal is subject to the judgment of the Court of Appeal and to the extent that it re-avails:

provides that from the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registers of civil status, the husband will pay the woman € 561 (in words: five hundred sixty-one euro) as a contribution towards the costs of care and education of the minor. month, the future installments must always be paid in advance;

provides that the husband must pay the wife as a contribution towards the cost of living from July 1, 2019 onwards from the date of registration of the divorce decision in the registry of civil status (in words: one hundred and eighty euros) (gross ) per month and with effect from 1 July 2019, € 326 (in words: three hundred and twenty-six euros) (gross) per month, the future installments to be paid in advance each time;

declares this decision (so far) feasible with stock;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by M.C. Schenkeveld, mr. H.A. van den Berg and mr. C.M.J. Peters, in the presence of Mr. E.L. Baauw as registrar, and was pronounced in public by the chairman on March 10, 2020.