Pronunciation


COURT OF AMSTERDAM

SHORT JUDGMENT

Parquet numbers: 13-702766-18 (A) and 13-701195-19 (B)

Date of judgment: March 24, 2020

Shortened judgment of the Amsterdam District Court, multiple criminal division, in the criminal case against

[suspect] ,

born in [place of birth] ([country of birth]) on [birthday] 1973,

registered in the Personal Records Database at the address [address].

1 Proceedings
This summary judgment was contradicted in response to the investigation at the hearing on March 10, 2020.

The court has appended the cases that have been brought to the parquet numbers mentioned above in individual summonses. These cases are hereinafter referred to as case A and case B respectively.

The court took note of the claim of the public prosecutor, Mr. G. Dankers, and of what the defendant and her counsel, Mr. S. Plas, have put forward.

2 Appeal
The accused has been charged in case A with that

on or about November 23, 2018 in [place 2], in any case in the Netherlands, in execution of the crime suspected of deliberately depriving [person] of life, or at least inflicting serious bodily harm, with that intent, several times, at least once, with a (kitchen) knife,

to insert at least a sharp and / or pointed object and / or to cut and / or chop in / against the abdominal or chest area, in any case the body of the aforementioned [person], and / or with the (house) crockery, at least throw a hard and / or sharp and / or heavy object and / or throw it against the head of the aforementioned [person];

alternatively:

on or about November 23, 2018 in [place 2], at least in the Netherlands, abused her husband, [person], by stabbing and / or chopping at least with a sharp and / or sharp object in a knife / against the abdominal or chest area in any case the body of the aforementioned [person] and / or by throwing (house) crockery, at least a hard and / or sharp object and / or throwing it against the head of the aforementioned [person] , as a result of which the above-mentioned [person] has been injured and / or has experienced pain.

in case B:

that on or about March 21, 2019 in [place 2], in each case in the Netherlands, in execution of the crime suspected of deliberately causing serious physical injury to (her husband) [person], once or intentionally several times with scissors, at least a sharp and / or pointed object that [person] has put in the arm, at least the body;

alternatively:

that on or about March 21, 2019 in [place 2], in any case in the Netherlands, she abused her husband, [person], once or several times with scissors, at least a sharp and / or pointed object in the arm, in at least cross the body;

3 Reasons of the Decision
3.1
The position of the Public Prosecution Service

On the basis of the evidence, the officer has petitioned to prove the mistreatment allegedly charged in case A and the attempted serious bodily injury as charged in the alternative in case B.

3.2
The position of the defense

The counsel has taken the position on behalf of the suspect that with regard to the stab blame alleged against the suspect on November 23, 2018 (case A), she cannot remember stabbing her husband with a knife. There is no statement of injury, and the superficial wounds that the declarant had are contraindicated for deliberately inflicting serious bodily harm with a large knife. On the basis of the file, it cannot be established beyond doubt that the injuries of the declarant were caused by the deliberate throwing of crockery by the suspect. In addition, the declarant's injuries are not in accordance with his statement. Now that there is no sufficient legal and convincing evidence, the counsel has pleaded full acquittal for the charges in case A.

Also regarding the incident on March 21, 2019, the counsel has pleaded acquittal for the primarily charged allegation of deliberately inflicting serious bodily harm. The suspect has no memory of a stabbing incident with scissors and firmly denies having been in the kitchen where the stabbing incident would have taken place. Moreover, with regard to both the primarily charged attempt and the alternatively charged mistreatment on the basis of the file, it cannot be established without reason that the defendant deliberately stabbed her husband with scissors. In addition, the declarer's incriminating statement is selective and therefore unreliable. In addition, an injury statement is missing.

3.3
The judgment of the court

In case A, the court does not consider the attempted homicide to be proven. The same applies to the attempted serious physical injury charged in both case A and case B. It cannot be established on the basis of the evidence in the file that the suspect's intention was aimed at the death of the declarant or inflicting serious bodily harm. The file also does not show how the suspect would have stabbed, with what force she did this and whether, in case A, this was done with a knife. The suspect will therefore be acquitted of these facts.

The court does consider the abuse of the declarant proven on both November 23, 2018 and March 21, 2019.

Regarding the mistreatment in case A on November 23, 2018, the court bases the evidence on the findings of the reporters who came to the scene after the incident was reported and found a head wound with the declarant. In addition, they see a hole and a red spot or blood on his clothing at the height of his chest. The reporters also describe that in the house scattered crockery is located, as is also recorded in a photograph of the living room attached to that official report.

With regard to the abuse on March 21, 2019 in case B, the court bases itself on the evidence on the report of [person], his injury to the arm that is related by the reporters and a photo of the injury to his arm. In addition, the court attaches value to the statement of the suspect insofar as it has stated that it had scissors in its hand that evening.

The court considers that the suspect has been proven

with regard to fact 1 in the alternative in case A:

on November 23, 2018 in [place 2], abused her husband, [person], by stabbing a sharp object in the chest area of ​​said [person] and by throwing crockery against the head of said [person], as a result of which [person] has been injured;

with regard to fact 1 in the alternative in case B:

on March 21, 2019 in [place 2], abused her husband, [person], by stabbing in the arm with scissors.

Evidence
The court bases its decision that the suspect committed the proven fact on the facts and circumstances contained in the evidence. If an appeal is lodged against this summary judgment, the evidence used by the court that gives reasons for the statement of evidence will be included in a supplement to the summary judgment. This addition is then attached to the summary judgment.

Criminal offenses and criminal offenses of the accused
5.1.
The position of the defense

The counselor primarily appealed to the suspect's psychological force majeure at the time of the alleged incidents. In the alternative, the counsel advocated full insanity defense.

With regard to psychological force majeure, the counsel argued that there was a concrete continuous emergency in which the suspect's physical integrity was violated by her (now ex) husband. There has been an accumulation of violent incidents, as the police mutations also show. In support of this, the counsel argues that the psychiatrist has concluded that there were accidents in the relationship between the suspect and her husband. Seen in this way, the suspect could not be expected to resist the psychological urge at the charges. All this leads to the conclusion that the defendant's actions cannot be blamed for her and she should be dismissed from all legal proceedings.

In the alternative, the counsel has stated that there seems to be dissociative moments. When the court assumes that the suspect can no longer remember the alleged incidents at all, she must be deemed completely insane.

5.2.
The judgment of the court

There is psychic force majeure when there is an external urge to which the suspect cannot and cannot reasonably offer resistance. In addition, under certain circumstances, the fact that the suspect has put himself in the situation in which that urge has been exercised may hinder the success of the appeal to psychological force majeure.

The court dismisses the appeal for psychological force majeure. The court realizes that there has been a violent home situation in which there are indications that the (ex) spouse has psychological and at times, as the court understands, physical pressure on the suspect and that this pressure also lasts for a longer period of time. has occurred regularly. However, the court has not established that the circumstances on the charges were such that during the incidents in question the suspect no longer had any freedom to resist or act differently.

In addition, in the case of the suspect, based on the Pro Justitia reports, the court is of the opinion that the suspect has internal causes in the form of years of untreated psychological problems, such as a borderline disorder that is more emotional and or more aggressive. to explain action in such situations. The problem in the person of the suspect also stands in the way of a successful appeal to psychological force majeure

With regard to the appeal to the suspect's full insanity, the court is of the opinion that full insanity at the time of the charge was not established by the psychiatrist and the psychologist.

The court refers in particular to the report of the psychiatrist in which the following passage is included:

“In addition, there also seems to be dissociative moments. (…) The person concerned describes “blackouts” or “passing out” and afterwards no longer knows what happened. (…) Although the person involved states that he or she has been a victim of traumatic events (…), the complaints of the person involved do not seem to be directly related to these events. (…) All in all, the researcher was unable to detect but also not exclude PTSD.

In addition, the researcher does not exclude that the “blackouts” also involve some secondary illness gains and that the person involved “does not remember her”, also makes efforts to avoid having to discuss more unwelcome matters and to avoid trial.

(…)

Although the person concerned does not say that he has recalled the accused, it is very likely that the person involved was in a situation with strong emotions in which she was not sufficiently able to regulate her emotions and aggression due to her borderline disorder. The charges of March 2019, if proven, would in any case be less imputable to her for this reason. At that time she had insufficient control over her actions. Complete insanity cannot be fully substantiated, because it has not become fully clear whether the person concerned was actually in a dissociative state and therefore completely lost control of her actions. There is no evidence that the person involved was psychotic around or during the charge.

The person concerned did not want to or was unable to explain anything about the charges against 2018. The person concerned indicated that he can no longer remember this fact. However, she indicated that there have been several almost identical incidents, all with the same dynamics: She is psychologically ill and since her husband accuses and harasses her she can no longer act and loses control. The documents show that the person concerned remembers a striking number of details of the conflict prior to stabbing. Because of not wanting or being able to speak, no crime analysis could be made with the person involved. Although the person concerned did not want to speak about this fact, it is very plausible,

that here too there is a decrease in accountability, based on the fact that the person concerned is unable to handle her emotions and aggressive impulses adequately from her borderline disorder. "

The appeal to the accused's full insanity is therefore rejected.

The proven facts are punishable by law. The existence of a ground for justification has not become plausible. No circumstance has become plausible that excludes the suspect's criminality. The suspect is therefore punishable.

Justification of the penalties and measures
6.1
The position of the Public Prosecution Service

The public prosecutor has filed for a preliminary injunction that the suspect will be sentenced to a conditional prison sentence of 2 months with a probation period of 3 years in connection with the offenses she has proved proven, and the special conditions as advised by the probation service. The public prosecutor has also demanded an unconditional community service order of 100 hours.

6.2
The position of the defense

The counselor has argued that the suspect benefits from assistance and has requested the court to impose a (symbolic) conditional sentence on the suspect without including the condition of a clinical admission.

6.3
The judgment of the court

The sentence to be referred to below is in accordance with the seriousness of the alleged evidence, the circumstances under which the facts were committed and the person of the suspect, as has been shown at the hearing.

In deciding whether to impose a custodial sentence and in determining its duration, the court took the following into account in particular.

The defendant has twice been guilty of assaulting her husband using stabbing weapons and throwing crockery. The file shows a tense and explosive period between the suspect and her husband prior to the accused.

The suspect was reported in Pro Justitia reports by psychiatrist C.J. Kerssens and psychologist V.I. Tiemens, GZ psychologist. These reports, summarized briefly and concisely, show that the suspect has a borderline personality disorder with theatrical and avoidant features, a somatic symptom disorder and partner relationship problems that were also present during the accused. The suspect was under great stress due to the various psychosocial and serious relational problems. Due to her personality problems, she was unable to adequately regulate her emotions and aggressive impulses and this has significantly influenced her freedom of choice and action. It cannot be shown that there has been complete insanity, because it has not become clear whether the suspect actually dissociated during the charge. The charges are therefore less imputable to her.

In view of the personality and aggression issues of the suspect, the experts advise clinical treatment to reduce the risk of recidivism that should be considered high at the moment

Meanwhile, it became clear at the hearing on March 10, 2020 that the divorce between the suspect and her husband is imminent and that they no longer live together in the former matrimonial home. Declarant [person] now lives in [place 1].

An e-mail from A. Boom, probation officer at Probation Netherlands shows that

on the basis of the Pro Justitia reports, consultation took place with the NIFP (IFZ) Forensic Care Indication Statement. This has shown that now that the suspect and her husband are no longer living together, the clinical and forensic need for admission has diminished.

At the hearing, Mr. Boom explained his e-mail and stated that outpatient day treatment is possible and preferred, because the suspect can then return to her now safe home situation every day. In his opinion, however, the possibility should be kept open to switch to clinical treatment if it should prove necessary during the day treatment. In the context of a conditional criminal offense, Mr Boom explicitly recommended a five-year probationary period in order to monitor the motivation of the person concerned and the coordination of care. A relationship of trust with the suspect has already begun, but further expanding that relationship is of great importance for the success of a treatment and will continue to take the necessary investment time. Because of the trust relationship that currently exists, the suspect keeps to her agreements. Mr. Boom is of the opinion that community service is possible, provided that the specific circumstances of the suspect are taken into account.

The court adopts the probation advice from Mr Boom. The court hereby considers that in view of the past incidents, as shown in the file, there is serious psychological problem with the suspect, with no insight into how this problem will develop in the future. The court sees a great risk of repetition of violent behavior, given the explosive nature of the suspect and the fact that she apparently has a lack of insight into her clinical picture. That is why the court considers a long-term care process necessary and the relationship of trust that has now been built up between the suspect and the probation service and the continuation of that relationship is of great importance for the success of ambulatory treatment.

In view of the foregoing, the suspect's criminal record, which shows that she has not been convicted of similar offenses before, and the landmarks of the National Consultation on Criminal Content (LOVS) will impose a suspended prison sentence of two months on the court with the special conditions. as advised by the probation service with a probation period of five years and community service for a period of one hundred hours.

Applicable legal regulations
The penalties to be imposed are based on Articles 14a, 14b, 14c, 14d, 22b, 22c, 22d, 57, 300, 304 of the Criminal Code.

4 Decision
Based on the above, the court will reach the following decision.

Declares it in case A under 1 primarily and the charge in case B under 1 primarily not proven and acquits suspect thereof.

Declares proven that the Defendant committed it in the alternative in case A under 1 and in the alternative in case B under 1 in the alternative as mentioned above in section 3.

Does not declare proven what has been charged to the suspect more or differently than has been declared proven above and acquits the suspect thereof.

The proven certified delivers:

with regard to case A fact 1 in the alternative and case B fact 1 in the alternative:

each time: abuse.

Declares the proven criminal.

Declares suspect, [suspect], for that punishable.

Sentences suspect to a prison term of 2 (two) months.

Orders that this penalty will not be enforced unless otherwise ordered later.

Determines a trial period for the duration of 5 (five) years.

Enforcement may be ordered if the convict is guilty of a criminal offense before the end of the probationary period.

Enforcement may also be ordered if, during the probationary period, the sentenced person fails to comply with the special conditions set out below.

- Outpatient treatment (with the possibility of clinical admission):

The convicted person must cooperate in an outpatient day treatment of GGZingeest, whereby the convicted person complies with the instructions that the convicted person will be given in connection with that treatment by or on behalf of the (physician) director of that institution. If during outpatient treatment it appears that treatment must still take place clinically, the convicted person must participate in clinical treatment after an indication issued by the IFZ.

The ambulatory day treatment must start as soon as the convict has built up a day rhythm with guidance from GGZingeest in the field of daytime activities.

- Daytime activities

The convicted person must cooperate in the daytime activities of GGZ Ingeest, Roads or a similar institution, in accordance with the instructions of the probation service.

Assigns the Probation Service of the Netherlands to supervise compliance with the conditions as referred to in Article 14c, sixth paragraph, of the Criminal Code and to guide the sentenced person for this purpose.

Conditions are that the convicted person during the probation period

will cooperate in taking one or more fingerprints or providing proof of identity as referred to in Article 1 of the Act on Identification Obligation for the purpose of establishing his identity;

cooperate with the probation supervision, referred to in Article 14c, sixth paragraph, of the Criminal Code, including cooperation with home visits and reporting to the probation service as often and as long as the probation service deems it necessary, during the entire probation period of 5 year to monitor the convicted person's motivation and coordinate care.

Also condemns suspect to community service for the duration of 100 (one hundred) hours, with order, in the event that suspect has not properly performed the community service, that alternative custody will be applied for the duration of 50 (fifty) days, with order that the time spent by the Defendant in insurance and pre-trial detention before the execution of this judgment will be deducted entirely in accordance with the standard of 2 (two) hours per day.

Declares withdrawn from traffic:

1 Knife 5725628 2 Scissors gold-colored 5725629.

This judgment was passed by

mr. R.A. Sipkens, chairman,

mrs. V.V. Essenburg and R. Godthelp, Judges,

in the presence of L. Jaakke-van den Berg, Registrar,

and pronounced at the public hearing of this court on March 24, 2020.