Pronunciation


COURT OF 'S-HERTOGENBOSCH

Family and youth law team

Judgment: March 12, 2020

Case numbers: 200.258.456 / 01 and 200.258.460 / 01

Case number first instance: C / 02/343517 FA RK 18-1867

in the appeal case of:

[appellant],

residing in [place of residence],

appellant,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer: mr. W.H.P. de Jongh,

against

[defendant],

residing in [place of residence],

defendant,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer: mr. C.F.A. Cadot.

This case includes:

- [the minor 1] ([the minor 1]), born on [date of birth] 2010 in [place of birth];

- [the minor 2] ([the minor 2]), born on [date of birth] 2014 in [place of birth].

In its capacity as described in Article 810 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the procedure includes:

the Child Protection Board,

hereinafter referred to as: the council.

1 Proceedings
1. For the course of the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) of 19 March 2019.

The appeal proceedings
2.1.
The man appealed the aforementioned decision on April 26, 2019.

2.2.
The woman filed a statement of defense on 4 June 2019.

2.4.1.
The oral hearing took place on January 28, 2010. The following were heard on that occasion:

- the man's lawyer;

- the woman, assisted by her lawyer;

- the Council, represented by Ms [Council Representative 1] and Ms [Representative Council 2], was present for oral hearing only in so far as it concerns the division of care and upbringing duties.

2.4.2.
The man's attorney stated at the hearing that the man informed him by e-mail that he was unable to attend the hearing because of a death in the family.

2.5.
The Court also took note of the contents of:

- the journal report from the woman's side with attachments dated January 14, 2020, received January 15, 2020.

2 Facts
3.1.
The parties were married on June 29, 2010.

3.2.
At the moment, the children mentioned above are still born under the marriage of the parties [the minor 1] and [the minor 2]. Parties jointly exercise parental authority over the children.

The children have the main residence with the woman.

3.3.
In the contested decision, the court pronounced the divorce between the parties, which decision was registered in the registers of civil status on 16 April 2019.

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1.
In the contested decision, the court also determined, insofar as it is currently relevant, that the husband and the minor children are entitled to contact each other once every fortnight on Sunday in the context of the division of care and upbringing duties. from 12:00 to 17:00. In short, the court has ordered the man to pay an amount of € 214.00 of the rent allowance he received to the woman and ordered the distribution of the common goods of the parties in the manner stated in legal considerations 4.25 to 4.31.

4.2.1.
The husband's grievances relate to the division of the care and upbringing duties, to the order to pay the woman the rent allowance of € 214, - and to the division of the matrimonial property, at least insofar as it concerns the division of the car regarding.

4.2.2.
The man has requested that the aforementioned decision be annulled only insofar as it concerns the division of the care and upbringing duties, the rent allowance and the distribution of the car, and insofar as again, the request of the man regarding the distribution of the care- and to assign parenting duties provided that the man and the minors are entitled to associate with each other for a weekend every two weeks from Saturday 10:00 am to Sunday 5:00 pm from the moment the man has replacement self-contained accommodation, as well as half of the summer vacation for three consecutive weeks and, as the court understands, to stipulate that the woman's request regarding the payment of the rent allowance is still rejected, or that the woman must pay € 60.17 with regard to the care allowance to the man, at least that the man may settle this amount.

4.3.
The woman has requested that the man be declared inadmissible in his appeal, or that the contested decision be ratified.

4.4.
These cases were administered at the Registry under case numbers 200.258.456 / 01 (division of the care and upbringing duties) and 200.258.460 / 01 (division of the matrimonial property community).

4.5.
These cases were handled and decided at the same time.

4 Reasons of the Decision
In both cases

With regard to care and upbringing duties

5.1.1.
The man has alleged that the court wrongly rejected his application at first instance, in particular as far as the holiday scheme is concerned. On appeal, the man requests that the children stay with the man for three consecutive weeks during the half of the summer vacation.

The man also requests an extension of the weekend arrangement as soon as he has independent living accommodation.

The lawyer has stated at the oral hearing that he has not had any contact with the man for some time and has referred to what has been argued in the appeal.

5.1.2.
The woman has stated the following.

Intercourse between the man and the children initially took place in the man's home, at least in the man's mother, with whom the man resides after the divorce. His thirteen-year-old sister [sister of the appellant] also lives with his mother. At some point [the minor 1] reported sexual transgressive behavior of [appellant's sister] towards her, after which the access arrangements were stopped. Help has been provided from Safe at Home. By judgment of October 25, 2019, the preliminary relief judge ruled that the contact between the man and the children may take place every two weeks on Sunday from 12:00 to 17:00 for a period of six months, but not at the address where the man is staying and that [the minor 1] will not be confronted with [appellant's sister]. After this interlocutory proceeding, the association was restarted and took place in the home of a sister of the man (court: known to the parties). Unfortunately, the interaction has stopped again from the end of December 2019. The man never showed up, when asked the man would have been ill. Then the man canceled because he would have a broken leg and after that he did not show up again without notice. This was very disappointing for the children, who like to interact with the man. It is not clear where the man currently resides, nor when the man is available again for the visiting rights. The man also has to turn to Veilig Thuis for discussions regarding the problems between [the minor 1] and [appellant's sister]. The woman is open to intercourse between the children and the man, but he must adhere to the arrangement so as not to disappoint the children. The woman finds herself in contact between the husband and the children in the husband's sister's home, once every fortnight on Sunday from € 12.00 to 17.00. Expansion of the association is not currently under discussion. In principle, the woman is open to extending access, but the access arrangements established by the court must first function (again) properly before extension can take place.

5.1.3.
The representative of the council stated the following at oral hearing. The council endorses the importance of interaction between the man and the children, but the man must adequately observe the contact arrangements as agreed. The children are bothered if the man does not come to pick them up and they do not see their father, even though they expected to. The Board does not currently consider it necessary to extend the access arrangements. The man must first demonstrate that he complies well with the regulations established by the court before extension can take place. The man must also turn to Veilig Thuis in connection with the assistance that has been initiated regarding the problems between [the appellant's sister] and [the minor 1]. Partly due to the absence of the man, this assistance has not yet been completed. The Council also considers it of great importance that intercourse takes place without the presence of [appellant's sister], for example, as has been the case for a short time, in the husband's sister's house.

5.1.4.
The court considers the following.

Pursuant to Article 1: 253a paragraph 1 of the Civil Code (BW) BW, disputes regarding the joint exercise of parental authority can be brought before a judge. In the event of a dispute regarding the division of the care and upbringing duties, the judge may, in accordance with Article 1: 253a paragraph 2, opening words and under a, of the Dutch Civil Code, establish a regulation. The judge takes such a decision as he deems desirable in the best interests of the child.

In view of the recent developments with regard to the problems between [the appellant's sister] and [the minor 1], as outlined uncontested by the woman and as evidenced in part by the decision of the preliminary relief judge of 25 October 2019, also considering the fact that the man has not had any contact with the children and with the woman (and, incidentally, with his lawyer) without any further notice, and partly in view of the views of the oral hearing council, the Court of Appeal considers extension of the contact as requested by the man on appeal, currently not in the interest of the children.

Furthermore, the court is of the opinion that, in view of the documents and the oral proceedings, in particular the advice of the council to continue the current access arrangements, but without the presence of [appellant's sister], that unconditional dealing with the children. currently conflicts with the compelling interests of the children, in particular of [the minor 1]. In view of this, the Court of Appeal will additionally stipulate that the interaction stipulated in the contested decision must only take place without the presence of [appellant's sister]. In doing so, the Court of Appeal considers that the parties are at all times free to extend the contact arrangements at a later stage by mutual agreement, for which the woman is also, in principle, prepared under conditions such as the one she has submitted for oral hearing.

The man's complaint fails.

Regarding the distribution of matrimonial property

Rent allowance

5.2.1.
The man has stated the following. The court has wrongly determined that for the period from April 11, 2018 to May 1, 2018, the man must pay the rent allowance of € 214 received by him to the woman. It concerns a provisional rent allowance and the final allowance is not yet known. The man also had to use the housing allowance to earn a living. Over the period from April 11, 2018 to May 1, 2018, the woman received an amount of € 60.17 in health care allowance (being 19/30 x € 95), while the man incurred costs in that period in respect of the health insurance premium. . The woman has to pay the amount of € 60.17 to the man, which amount the man wants to settle against the woman, as he has stated in the alternative.

5.2.2.
The woman has argued the following. The final rent allowance will not deviate from the amount of the provisional rent allowance. The woman disputes that the husband has used the housing allowance for his living. Furthermore, the husband first deregistered at the address of the matrimonial home on May 16, 2018, so that the woman was only entitled to child-related budgets from that date, at least on the single parent's head. The man has never paid child support and the woman has used the health care allowance for the costs of the children and for her own living.

5.2.3.
The court considers the following.

The court finds, in view of the documents and the oral proceedings, that the man has not submitted a final decision regarding the rent allowance for the period from April 11, 2018 to May 1, 2018, so that the court, in the absence of further information , the decision to be made regarding the rent allowance is based on the provisional rent allowance in the amount of € 214. The Court also finds that the woman has not denied that she received an amount of € 60.17 (being the 19/30 of € 95) for care allowance for the same period from April 11, 2018 to May 1, 2018, nor that the man (over that period) has incurred costs for the health insurance premium.

The court ignores the views of the parties that they have used the allowances to provide for the cost of living (and the costs of the children), because the question to which the money has been spent is not decisive for the question of who is entitled to this amounts. The court further considers that the rent allowance of € 214 actually belonged to the woman, as the court considered in the contested decision. After all, the woman paid the rent. The court also considers that the woman should pass on the health care allowance of € 60.17 to the man now that the man has contradicted that he has paid the costs of the health insurance premium. To that extent the husband has a claim on the wife. The husband may set off this amount against what he owes the wife regarding the rent allowance. There therefore remains an amount to be paid by the man to the woman of € 153.83.

Man's complaint succeeds to that extent.

The car

5.3.1.
The man has stated the following.

The court has wrongly considered that the car is part of the dissolved marriage community. The car was transferred to [a relative of the appellant] on August 30, 2017. The car was wrongly distributed and the man owes nothing to the woman on that point. In support of his assertion, the man presented the registration certificate of the car in the name of [a family member of the appellant] with the date of registration August 30, 2017, as well as a garage agreement dated September 5, 2017 in the name of [a family member of the appellant] and a statement of [a relative of the appellant], meaning that he has owned the car since August 30, 2017.

5.3.2.
The woman has reasoned contradicted the man's statement. The woman has argued that the car belongs to the marriage community. After the parties first separated in August 2017, the man declared to the woman that the car was still owned by the parties. On March 14, 2018, parties finally broke up, but the man just kept driving in the car. The car has not been sold. In addition, [a relative of the appellant] is a relative of the man. The woman also received an invoice dated August 27, 2018 for the period from September 5, 2018 to September 5, 2019, regarding the storage of the car.

5.3.3.
The court considers as follows.

There is no dispute between the parties that the car, an Audi A3 with registration number [registration], belonged to the marriage community of the parties.

Regarding size of the matrimonial community.

The court does not follow the man in his statement that the car is not part of the dissolved marriage community. The court finds that the marriage community of the parties was dissolved on April 11, 2018. The woman has substantiated disputes that the car was sold to [a relative of the appellant]. The woman has seen the man driving the car, the man has taken the car to Morocco, as the woman stated in oral hearing, and the woman received an invoice on August 27, 2018 from the parking of the car dated August 27, 2018 for the period from September 5, 2018 to September 5, 2019. Now that the man has not appeared for the oral hearing, the court has not been able to further question the man and the court has been unable to obtain a statement from the man about the state of affairs in the alleged sale and delivery of the car, in particular not the time of delivery, the proceeds and the destination thereof, and the allegation made by the woman that the man still drove the car and went to Morocco with it. In view of the motivated dispute by the woman, the alleged sale of the car has not been established. The statement by [a relative of the appellant] that he purchased the car on August 30, 2017 and the copy of the registration certificate dated August 30, 2017 in the name of [a relative of the appellant] are insufficient in this respect, now this, without further explanation. - which is missing - does not say anything about the ownership of the car at the time of the dissolution of the matrimonial property community, on April 11, 2018. In view of the above, in conjunction, it has not been established that the car before the date of dissolution of the marriage community was sold and delivered to a third party, at least it has not been established that the car was no longer part of the dissolved community.

Regarding the value of the car.

The following has also emerged from the documents and the proceedings for oral hearing. The woman has set the value of the car at € 5,600. The man initially stated that the car was sold without any revenue being realized. On the other hand, the man on appeal stated that the car was sold for € 1,600. When asked for oral hearing, the man's lawyer was unable to explain these various views of the man at first instance and on appeal, and the man's lawyer stated that the value of the car is unclear. The court does not consider the contradictory positions of the man without further explanation - which is missing - to be credible, at least the man has not contradicted, at least not sufficiently motivated, the woman's claim regarding the value of the car. In view of the above, the court assumes a value of the car of € 5,600.

The court of appeal, like the court, is of the opinion that the man should pay an amount of € 2,800 to the woman.

The man's complaint fails.

5.4.
The foregoing leads to the following decision.

5 Decision
The Council:

on both matters

With regard to the distribution of care and upbringing duties

ratifies the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) court of 19 March 2019 regarding the division of care and upbringing duties, on the understanding that the contact between the man and the minor children [the minor 1] and [the minor 2] must take place in the absence of [appellant's sister], the man's younger sister;

With regard to the division of the matrimonial community

annuls the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) court of 19 March 2019 only insofar as it concerns the payment by the husband to the wife of the rent allowance received,

and to that extent, once again,

condemns the man after having settled the health care allowance received by the woman

€ 60.17, to pay an amount of € 153.83 of the rent allowance received by him to the woman, all this as considered in paragraph 5.2.3;

declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

further validates the decision of the court of Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) of 19 March 2019 between the parties, insofar as subject to the judgment of the court of appeal;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. J.C.E. Ackermans-Wijn, E.M.C. Dumoulin and

M. Ossentjuk and was pronounced in public in the presence of the Registrar on March 12, 2020.
