Pronunciation


COURT OF 'S-HERTOGENBOSCH
Family and youth law team

Verdict: March 19, 2020

Case number: 200.270.310 / 01

Case number 1st instance: C / 03/349741 / JE RK 19-1277

in the appeal case of:

[the father] ,

residing in [place of residence],

appellant,

hereinafter referred to as: the father,

lawyer: mr. J. Sietsma,

against

Child Protection Council,

region Southwest Netherlands, location [location],

defendant,

hereinafter referred to as: the council.

This case is about minors:

- [minor 1], born on [date of birth] 2010 in [place of birth], hereinafter referred to as: [minor 1];

- [minor 2], born on [date of birth] 2015 in [place of birth], hereinafter referred to as [minor 2].

Stakeholders include:

- [the mother], living in [place of residence] (hereinafter referred to as: the mother);

- Brabant Youth Protection Foundation (hereinafter referred to as: the certified institution (GI));

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of East Brabant, of September 6, 2019 (in writing on September 17, 2019).

The appeal proceedings
2.1.
By appeal with productions, received at the registry on December 5, 2019, the father has requested by decision, to the extent possible with stock, the oral decision of September 6, 2019 and the aforementioned decision of September 17, 2019:

1. to annul, and again to do so, to reject the council's request;

2. to take at least such a decision as the Court of Appeal deems appropriate, and

3. Order the council to pay the costs of both these / these body (s).

2.2.
No statement of defense has been received.

2.3.
The court also took note of:

- the letter of 7 January 2020 from the Brabant Youth Protection Foundation, received on 8 January 2020;

- the minutes of the oral hearing at first instance on 6 September 2019.

2.4.
The oral hearing took place on February 25, 2020. On that occasion, the following were heard:

- the father, assisted by Mr. Sietsma;

- the mother;

- the council, represented by [representative of the council];

- the GI, represented by [GI 1 Representative] and [GI 2 Representative];

2 Facts
3.1.
The mother and father's marriage, which was dissolved by divorce, gave birth to:

- [minor 1] (hereinafter: [minor 1]) [minor 1], born on [date of birth] 2010 in [place of birth];

- [minor 2] (hereinafter: [minor 2]) [minor 2], born on [date of birth] 2015 in [place of birth].

The mother and father jointly have parental authority over the children.

3.2.
In the contested decision, declared enforceable, the court placed [minor 1] and [minor 2] under the supervision of the GI from 6 September 2019 to 6 September 2020.

3.3.
The father cannot agree with this decision and he has appealed against it.

3 Appeal
3.4.
In summary, as supplemented during the oral hearing, the father argues - in summary - the following. The court wrongly determined that the supervision of the children is necessary. The juvenile court judge wrongly states that the parents have not succeeded in removing concerns about their mutual dynamics and understanding. The parents clearly indicated that there was a one-off incident. This does not mean that the children are threatened in their development. Furthermore, it is not clear, at least insufficiently, from the motivation of the juvenile court judge why it can be expected that this may still occur in the future and that control is necessary. Father understands that the children should not be charged with adult matters. There were no new signals after the incident mentioned. Things are going well between the parents and they may get back together. A compulsory framework is not necessary.

3.5.
In summary, the mother argues in summary on appeal. The parents have not had a fight in the past year. They live separately. The parents thought together about their mistakes and adjusted their behavior accordingly. Although the divorce between the parents has been pronounced and is registered in the appropriate registers in [place], they do not feel separated. They have an affective relationship again and they want to continue together. There are no problems at this time.

3.6.
In summary, the GI argues the following on appeal. Due to the waiting list, it took a long time before a family guardian was appointed at the end of December last year. In the meantime, there was contact with the parents and the objective of the supervision was explained to them. The GI has contacted the children's school. In addition, the school has indicated that they do not see any striking behavior in the children and that the children are doing well. School has expressed its doubts about the relationship between the parents. They have no insight into this, which meant that school did not always know whether it was allowed to give the children to one of the parents.

The community police officer informed the GI last week that new (anonymous) reports have been received. This was a nuisance in which neighbors heard a lot of screaming in the mother's house. The police officer could not indicate between who was shouted and what about. The community police officer indicates that he is very concerned about the (family) situation of the parties. The mother, the local police officer says, is afraid of father. And while there are no concerns about the mother's upbringing of the children, there are particularly concerns about the relationship between the parents. Now that the parents have just indicated that they want to breathe new life into their relationship, the care will therefore be focused on the mutual communication between the parents, the tensions that they (at least in the recent past) have experienced in their relationship. and its effects on children. The GI therefore approached [name] (intercultural family and relationship therapy) for relationship therapy and for psycho-education to parents about the effect of their behavior on the children. Play therapy for the children can also be used. The GI is expected to start providing assistance within 1 to 2 months. The parents have indicated that they want to cooperate with the care provision.

3.7.
In summary, the Board argues the following about the oral hearing on appeal. The Council maintains its position that the children are seriously threatened in their development. Parents lack insight into the effect of their mutual dynamics on the children. The father is compelling and unpredictable and acts from his own emotion. The mother experiences a lot of stress when relating to the father, so that she is not always emotionally available to the children. Parents should work to gain insight into the effect of their behavior on the children. In addition, it must be examined whether pedagogical support is needed for the parents and for the children. In that context, the parents will be confronted with their behavior, which requires changes from the parents. The council expects that this will not work in a voluntary framework.

4 Reasons of the Decision
3.8.
The court considers the following.

3.8.1.
Pursuant to the provisions of Article 1: 255 paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, a judge can place a minor under the supervision of a certified institution when that minor grows up in such a way that he is seriously threatened in his development, and:

the care that is necessary in connection with the removal of the threat for the minor or for his parents or the parent who exercises authority is not or insufficiently accepted by these, and b.

b. the expectation is justified that the parents or the parent who exercise the authority within a term that is acceptable, in view of the person and the development of the minor, assume the responsibility for the care and upbringing, referred to in Article 1: 247 paragraph 2 BW, in be able to wear.

3.8.2.
Just like the court and on the same grounds as the court, which the court takes over and makes it its own after its own investigation and consideration, the court of appeal is of the opinion that the legal requirements of Article 1: 255 BW are met. The court adds the following.

3.8.3.
It is not disputed that during the relationship of the parties a violent incident occurred that the mother reported. The father was subsequently banned from contact for a period of one year. However, it is not just about this incident. It follows from the documents at first instance and from the Board's report of 24 July 2019 that the greatest concern that the Board has about the development of [minor 1] and [minor 2] lies in the influence that the quarrels between the parents have (had) on the children. During the oral hearing on appeal, the GI indicated that, now that it has become clear that the parents want to reshape their relationship, the care provision will mainly focus on this. Neither the GI nor the council is unclear about the necessity of this assistance and the presence of a serious developmental threat to the children. The court agrees with those findings. Given the instability of the relationship between the parents in the past, it cannot be ruled out that the risk of escalation and domestic violence will reappear. Furthermore, the parents seem to have insufficient insight into the harmful consequences for the children when they witness the verbal and physical domestic violence of their parents. The assistance offered is necessary. The court considers the mere promise by the father that he wants to cooperate in the voluntary framework offered to the assistance provided inadequate, especially since the parties' attitude and the proceedings during the oral hearing show that they actually believe that they don't need support.

3.8.4.
This means that the contested decision must be ratified, insofar as it is subject to the judgment of the court, and that further decisions must be made as follows.

3.8.5.
From the petitum, the court concluded that the father wanted a court order for costs. Already in view of the nature of the case and now that the appeal of the father does not lead to the annulment of the contested decision, the court sees no reason for a court order against costs. The court will compensate the legal costs.

5 Decision
The Council:

ratifies the order of the District Court of East Brabant of September 6, 2019, made in writing on September 17, 2019;

requests the registrar to transmit a copy of this decision to the registrar of the court of Oost-Brabant, division of civil law, team of family and youth law for the attention of the central authority register, in accordance with the provisions of the Custody Registers Decree;

compensates the costs of the appeal, in the sense that each party bears its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. A.J.F. Manders, C.A.R.M. from Leuven and

J.C.E. Ackermans-Wijn and was pronounced in public on March 19, 2020

mr. P.P.M. van Reijsen in the presence of the registrar.
