Pronunciation


COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE HERTOGENBOSCH

Family and youth law department

case number: 200.255.323 / 01

case number court: C / 02/342858 FA RK 18-1527

decision of the plenary chamber of 26 March 2020

on

[appellant],

residing in [place of residence],

applicant in the main appeal,

defendant in the cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer mr. S. van Reeven-Özer in Rijen,

against

[defendant],

residing in [place of residence],

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in the cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer mr. A. van Vliet in Breda.

1 Proceedings
For the course of the proceedings at first instance, the court refers to the order of the court of Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) of 11 December 2018, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1.
The man appealed on February 27, 2019 from a decision of December 11, 2018.

2.2.
On 11 April 2019, the woman also filed a statement of defense with an incidental appeal.

2.3.
The man filed a defense to the cross-appeal on June 3, 2019.

2.4.
By fax message from the woman dated 29 October 2019, received on 29 October 2019, the woman objected to the contents of the aforementioned defense of the man, in particular insofar as it concerns a reaction of the man to the defense of the woman in the principal appeal. The court of appeal gave the woman the opportunity to respond further to that part of the defense of the man in the context of the proper order of trial. With the consent of the parties, the woman made use of this to remove the woman's objection.

2.4.
The following documents were also received at the court:

- a journal message from the woman of November 14, 2019 with as appendices among others exhibits 10 to 12, received on November 15, 2019;

- a journal message from the woman of November 19, 2019 with as appendices among others exhibits 13 and 14, received on November 21, 2019;

- a journal message from the man of November 21, 2019, including as appendices exhibits 22 to 28, received on November 22, 2019.

2.5.
The oral hearing took place on December 5, 2019. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers.

2 Facts
3.1.
The court of appeal is based on the facts established by the court insofar as no appeal has been brought against it. Among other things, the following has been established.

3.2.
Parties were married on May 28, 2004. The divorce was pronounced between the parties by order of the Zeeland-West Brabant court of 2 December 2013. This decision was entered in the registers of civil status on 16 December 2013.

This decision also provides that the covenant of divorce annexed to that decision forms part of that decision

3.3.
In the aforementioned divorce settlement, signed by the parties on November 5, 2013, the parties have agreed the following, among other things:

“Article 1. Partner maintenance.

1.1.
The man has income from salaried employment amounting to € 38,487.00 in accordance with the 2012 annual statement and income as a self-employed person (football coach [the football association]) of € 10,500.00 gross per year, which together amounts to approximately € 2,650 net per month.

The woman has an income (profit) from her own business [the sole proprietorship], to

estimate in 2013 amounting to disposable income of approximately € 1,000 per month.

1.2.
As long as the man pays the costs mentioned in article 2.5 below, the man has none

room for spousal maintenance.

1.3.
After sale / transfer of the house or as long as the in art. 2.5 costs not mentioned

the more owed by the husband, or otherwise a change in circumstances occurs, the parties will consult to determine whether the wife needs and whether the husband has the capacity to pay spousal maintenance and, if so, to what amount.

Article 2. The marital home and related rights and charges.

(...)

2.5 (...)
Until the aforementioned time of sale / transfer, the man will pay the mortgage interest of € 1,043 gross per month, the Reaal premium policy of € 198.00 and the business owner's expenses such as the WOZ owner's part, home insurance and water board levy (fixed rate).

€ 95 per month). The man will also be responsible for the costs of water and electricity in the home.

The woman will pay the man a compensation of 50% of the net mortgage interest for the man, which compensation is set by the parties at € 470 per month.

(… ”

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1.
In the contested order, the court set the living contribution to be paid by the man to the woman (hereinafter also: spousal maintenance) from 1 October 2017 to 1 October 2018 at € 639 per month and with effect from 1 October 2018. € 713 per month.

4.2.1.
In the appeal in principle, the husband requested the annulment of the contested decision and still reject the wife's request for partner maintenance, or at least to give a decision that the Court of Appeal considers correct. Costs in law.

4.2.2.
The grievances of the man refer to the starting date, the need of the woman, the need of the woman, at least her need for an additional maintenance contribution, as well as the capacity of the man.

4.3.
In the principal appeal, the woman has requested that the appeal of the man be dismissed as unfounded and that his requests be rejected, if necessary with correction and addition to the facts and grounds.

4.4.1.
In the cross-appeal, the woman has requested that the man's ability to rise after a period of one year, after the decision of which appeal is made, increase by the gross equivalent of € 114 per month, with conviction of the man to pay the costs on appeal.

4.4.2.
The woman's grievance refers to the man's standing.

4.4.3.
In his defense against cross-appeal, the man requested that the woman's claims be dismissed in cross-appeal.

4.5.
The court will discuss the grievances in principle and on an incidental appeal per subject.

4 Reasons of the Decision
In the principal and incidental appeal

Change of circumstances

5.1.
There is no dispute between the parties that, given the sale of the former matrimonial home and the delivery on September 29, 2017, there is a change in circumstances that leads to a contribution to the woman's living expenses to be paid by the husband. (hereinafter also: partner maintenance), in view of need and capacity, must be assessed.

starting date

5.2.1.
The effective date is in dispute between the parties. The husband has stated that the partner maintenance to be paid by him cannot take effect until March 23, 2018, the date on which the woman filed her request with the court. The woman refuted this statement with motivation.

5.2.2.
The court considers the following.

It has emerged from the documents and the oral proceedings that the parties, as they have also agreed in the covenant, have entered into consultations about the determination of partner maintenance. Mediation has taken place. This ended at the beginning of December 2017 without result. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, the woman has not made it plausible that she had provided the mediator with sufficient information to explain her need and that the husband was not required to take the petition into account earlier than the date on which the petition was motivated. with the obligation to pay spousal maintenance to women. What the woman has also argued for her position to assume an earlier commencement date is set aside by the court. In view of the above, the court sets the effective date on March 23, 2018.

Need of the woman

5.3.1.
The man has stated the following. In determining the woman's needs, the court wrongly assumed the court standard. The need of the woman must be substantiated, as much as possible on the basis of concrete information about the existing and the expected costs of living, which correspond reasonably to the welfare of the parties. The woman has contested the statements of the man with motivation.

5.3.2.
The court considers the following.

The court considers that the court standard is a useful, often used in maintenance practice and usually sufficient method for determining the marriage-related need. Determining the marriage-related need in another way usually boils down to time-consuming and arduous exercises using lists of needs that encourage the exaggeration of positions exaggerated on one side and the other. In the great majority of those cases, the court sees that the conclusion is not substantially different from that reached using the court standard.

The court considers that the husband has not substantiated at all his position that the need of the woman cannot be determined on the basis of the court standard applied by the court. Now that the man has not put forward, at least insufficient facts or circumstances, on the basis of which the need determined by the court according to that criterion would not be correct, and the court also did not find any special circumstances that in the present case involve a different way of calculation of needs, the court will determine the marriage-related need of the woman, as well as the court, based on the court standard. In the opinion of the Court of Appeal, this conclusion - in view of what the parties have mutually argued - is in accordance with the teaching of the Supreme Court, which, in short, states that the use of the court standard as the only measure of need cannot when the relevant circumstances put forward by the parties are ignored. The mere fact that the man has mentioned a number of matters in the woman's need list in his appeal, without, incidentally, drawing any conclusions from this, does not alter the foregoing.

Like the court, the court sets the woman's needs in 2018 at € 2,338.29 net per month, which amount has not been contradicted as such by the man.

Need of women

5.4.1.
In summary, the man has stated the following. The court wrongly considered that the woman has no higher income from her business than € 957 net per month. Furthermore, the court wrongly considered that the woman could not earn a higher income. The woman, as was the case during the marriage, has income from undeclared work, at least more income than appears from the annual accounts. There were several consultations that were not accounted for in the accounts. The fact that there was net income from undeclared work is also evident from the woman's spending pattern during marriage. Parties had separate finances during the marriage. During the wedding they made five trips to Bali. Everyone paid their own costs. The costs of such journeys are not in line with the level of income at welfare level that the woman, as she herself stated, lived. It also appears from the bank statements submitted by the woman that there have been a number of credit transfers, for which the woman has not provided a sufficiently substantiated explanation. Furthermore, large parts of the bank statements have been made illegible. In any case, amounts have been deposited by one Kooijman, in April and June 2018 of total

€ 2,500 for which deposits the woman has not given a sufficiently substantiated statement. The woman also drives an expensive car, she has incurred high fuel costs, the woman has purchased a completely new interior and the woman undertakes various activities and undergoes various treatments (botox, fillers), which cannot be paid from an income at social assistance level. .

The husband is of the opinion that the wife generates, or can earn, such income that she can support herself. In support of his last statement, the man submitted a number of vacancies.

5.4.2.
The woman has contested the statements of the man with motivation. In view of her current age (60 years) and her physical limitations, the woman is not able to generate a higher income than she currently does, either from her company or elsewhere with additional employment. The woman has contested the man's proposition, briefly summarized, as follows. During the marriage there were never any consultations that were not processed in the accounts. The woman had a decline in income every year from May to mid-August because the woman had no course groups during that period. The water was on the woman's lips and in April and June 2018, a friend, Kooiman, helped the woman financially. The bank statements have been partially defaced because they were presented in accordance with the needs of women. Depreciation that does not apply in that context has been made illegible. The (extra) refueling costs identified by the man were incurred by the woman because the woman's car was stolen and she had to drive extra kilometers in search of another car. The woman paid for the car and the partly new interior from a donation from her father. The woman also had to drive extra kilometers in connection with family visits to the hospital.

5.4.3.
The court considers the following.

Income from the company

5.4.3.1. The woman is self-employed without personnel, she has a sole proprietorship trading under the name "[de sole proprietorship]" in [location]. The company's activities consist of giving consultations, lectures and workshops in the spiritual field, as well as carrying out activities in the hairdressing salon and the sale of articles.

The annual reports submitted by the woman show that the result in 2017 and the turnover in 2018 were incidentally influenced as follows. A charge of € 10,730 was included in 2017. The documents and the oral proceedings revealed that after the sale of the matrimonial home there was an undervalue that was accounted for by half of the woman. In an oral hearing, the woman stated that in 2017 the bookkeeper had included an amount of € 10,730 in the profit and loss account in respect of the equity. The profit in 2017 was only € 1,984.19 due to this incidental charge. In 2018 there was a special income of € 8,196. The woman stated in oral procedure that this benefit relates to the woman's car, at least to a payment from the insurer who, after the theft of that car, paid an amount of € 8,196 to the woman. As a result of this incidental gain, the profit in 2018 amounted to € 18,635.25. The annual figures for 2017 and 2018 require correction in this respect. If asked, the woman stated during the oral hearing partly in connection with the expectation for 2019 that stable figures have been established for many years and that the woman has an average annual turnover of € 30,000, taking into account better and worse years, -. The court assumes this. Based on the annual reports submitted for 2017 and 2018 (namely in 2017 without the incidental burden on the home of € 10,730 and in 2018 without the income of € 8,196) and in view of the forecast for 2019, the court estimates the average cost of the business at 50% of sales. The court calculates the net disposable income of the woman, based on a result from the woman's company of € 15,000 per year, at € 1,219 per month. She has not, or at least not sufficiently substantiated, the fact that the woman now incurs and has to incur more costs for giving courses and her work as a hairdresser, so that the court does not take this into account. For the calculation of the net disposable income based on the income from the business of the woman, the court refers to the calculation annexed to this order and forming part of this order (see appendix).

Net income

5.4.3.2. In view of the documents and the proceedings that were held for oral hearing, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the woman has not disputed, at least inadequately substantiated, the husband's assertion that the wife has more income, given her lifestyle that does not correspond to the level of assistance set. During the oral hearing, the woman stated, among other things, that she received a donation from her father of € 20,000 before her father died in 2016. The woman bought a new car of that amount (plus trade-in of the old car), because, as the woman has stated, her father found it necessary that the woman had a good car. The Court of Appeal considers that although it was reasonable for the woman to explain why she was able to purchase a car for such an amount, despite the level of assistance provided, but the woman has not, at least not sufficiently substantiated, how she (other) lifestyle as outlined by the man. The woman has not, at least not sufficiently, given insight into her financial situation, partly in view of partly painted-out amounts. Furthermore, the woman has not contradicted, at least not sufficiently reasoned, the exhibits 12, 13 and 27 submitted by the man on appeal. All things considered, the Court of Appeal assumes that the woman has net income that means that she led a life (well) above the assistance level set by the woman. The Court of Appeal reasonably estimates this income at 1/4 of its aforementioned net disposable income, namely rounded € 300 net per month.

For the calculation of the additional need of the woman, the court therefore assumes a total net disposable income of the woman € 1,519 per month. The husband's assertion that the wife could reasonably earn an income with which she can earn her living and which is higher than the court has now calculated, the husband has not, at least not sufficiently substantiated.

As of March 23, 2018, the additional need of the woman is € 819.29 net per month.

Carrying capacity of the man

5.5.
The husband has stated that, insofar as the woman already needs it, he is unable to pay the partner's maintenance payments determined by the court. The woman has reasoned contradicted the man's statement.

5.6.
The court uses the following information to calculate the man's ability to pay.

Income of the man

5.7.
The court assumes a taxable income of the man of € 40,356.00, as is apparent from the calculation of the capacity attached to the contested decision (as of 1 October 2018), now that the woman does not, at least not sufficiently, support the man's statement on this point. has contradicted. With reference to the capacity calculation attached to this order and forming part of this order, the court calculates the man's net disposable income at € 2,420 per month (see appendix).

Capacity without income

5.8.
The court also follows the aforementioned calculation of the court's ability to pay with regard to the man's capacity-free income, with the exception of the following items that are in dispute between the parties on appeal.

1) the man has stated that the repayment of the car's debt must also be taken into account (complaint 6 by the man);

2) the woman has stated that after 1 year the capacity of the man will increase by the gross equivalent of € 114 per month with regard to the lawyer's costs.

3) the man has stated that in view of the size of the lawyer's fees it is unreasonable to use the treasury report as the starting point for the lawyer costs and to limit these costs in terms of duration.

Blame for the car

5.9.
The man has stated that the court wrongly did not take into account the repayment on the debt of the car for which he took out a loan of € 5,000 with a repayment of € 101.85 per month, with which repayment the court still should take into account. The woman has motivated the man's argument.

The court considers the following.

When asked, the man stated in the oral hearing that he bought a new Nissan Qashquai for € 28,000 and that, after trading in his Toyota Auris, he had to pay € 5,000 for which amount the man took out the loan in question. At the oral hearing, the man replied in the affirmative to the question whether he could not have used another cheaper car instead of this new car. Now that the man, given his oral hearing, could have purchased a replacement car for a lower amount, the necessity of the loan that the man has taken out has not been established and the obligation to contribute to the maintenance of prevail the woman.

In view of the above, the Court of Appeal does not take into account the repayment of the debt relating to the car.

The lawyer costs

5.10.
With regard to attorney fees, the woman has lodged an appeal on an incidental basis that after a period of one year the husband's ability to pay will increase by the gross equivalent of € 114 per month. In her petition, the woman has requested that the man's ability to rise after a period of one year, after the decision of which an appeal is made, will increase by the gross equivalent of € 114 per month, with conviction of the man to pay the costs of the appeal proceedings.

The husband has argued the woman's argument motivated. He has argued that he still has to pay lawyer's fees after one year.

Based on the standard assumption in accordance with the Trema report, the court takes into account a reservation for attorney's fees of € 114 per month for a year, albeit from March 23, 2018 to March 23, 2019. The man has not provided sufficient special circumstances that would justify deviation from the aforementioned starting point. The woman's incidental complaint is not successful, now that the court also assumed a period of one year in the contested order.

5.11.
After deduction of the aforementioned expenses from the above net disposable income, the man has a carrying capacity of € 595, of which 60% is available for the payment of spousal maintenance. Paid partner maintenance is deductible for income tax. The tax benefit that the husband enjoys through this deduction is entirely for the benefit of the wife. Taking this into account, the husband has the capacity to pay a partner alimony to the woman from March 23, 2018 to March 23, 2019 of € 603 per month (see appendix), to which amount the woman needs.

5.12.
As of March 23, 2019, based on the aforementioned principles, but now without booking the attorney's fees, the man has the capacity to pay a partner's alimony to the woman of € 710 per month, as is apparent from the attached and This decision forms part of the capacity calculation (see appendix), which amount the woman needs.

Partner maintenance

5.11.
In view of the above, the Court of Appeal will set partner maintenance from March 23, 2018 to March 23, 2019 at € 606 per month and, as of March 23, 2019, at € 710 per month.

Too much paid spousal maintenance?

5.12.
According to the letter from the LBIO submitted by the woman on 20 September 2019, the man (only) started paying the partner maintenance imposed by the court from January 2019 and the collection of this was stopped by the LBIO from October 2019 in connection with the ongoing lawsuit. If and insofar as the husband has paid the woman too much in respect of partner maintenance on the basis of this decision, or if and insofar as too much in respect of partner maintenance has been recovered from the man, the woman must refund the overpayment to the man or the man may settle the excess that has been recovered from him with the maintenance periods to be paid to the woman with the woman.

Litigation costs

5.13.
The court will compensate the costs of the appeal on the grounds that each party bears its own costs now that the parties are former husbands and the proceedings concern the woman's living expenses.

5.14.
The foregoing leads to the following decision.

5 Decision
The Council:

to the principal and occasional appeal:

annuls the decision of the court of Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) of 11 December 2018 only insofar as it concerns the woman's living contribution and changes the agreement between the parties contained in the divorce settlement of 5 November 2013 to that extent,

and in so far re-possessing:

stipulates that the husband must pay the wife as a living contribution:

- from March 23, 2018 to March 23, 2019 an amount of 606, - per month, and

- as of March 23, 2019, an amount of € 710 per month,

to pay the future installments each time in advance;

provides that the woman must reimburse the husband for any subsistence allowance that the husband may have overpaid, at least that the husband is overpaid by him or has been paid to him in that regard for the subsistence allowance set off against the future maintenance installments;

declares this decision (so far) feasible with stock;

compensates the costs of the appeal proceedings in that each party is to bear its own costs;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. J.F.A.M Graafland-Verhaegen, H. van Winkel and

P. Vlaardingenbroek and pronounced in public in the presence of the registrar on 26 March 2020 by mr. H. van Winkel.