Pronunciation


verdict

COURT OF THE HAGUE
Team trading

case number / roll number: C / 09/583707 / HA ZA 19-1194

Judgment in incident of March 11, 2020

in the case of

[the woman], in [place 1], Spain,

plaintiff in convention in the main proceedings,

defendant in the main action,

defendant in the incident,

lawyer mr. S.R. Baetens in Eindhoven,

against

[the man], in [place 2], Spain

defendant in convention in the main,

claimant in the main action,

plaintiff in the incident,

lawyer mr. C.J.H.E. Jeurissen in Breda.

Parties will hereinafter be referred to as the woman and the man.

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

the summons of September 25, 2019, with exhibits 1-5;

the conclusion of the reply also a claim in the counterclaim also containing a defense of jurisdiction, with exhibits 1-10;

the conclusion of the response in the incident, with Exhibit 6.

1.2.
Finally, a date for judgment has been set in the incident.

2 Scope of Dispute
2.1.
The claims of the woman in the main proceedings in the convention serve to equalize (according to the Wet Equalization of Pension Rights in Divorce, hereinafter: Wvps) the pension accrued by the husband during the marriage of parties to Nationale Nederlanden. According to the woman, the Dutch court has jurisdiction primarily on the basis of the choice of forum before the Dutch court in the prenuptial agreement and, alternatively, on the basis of Article 9, preamble and under c Code of Civil Procedure (Rv).

2.2.
The man takes the view that the Dutch court has no jurisdiction to hear the claim in convention, since he lives in Spain, the choice of court in the prenuptial agreement does not apply to the retirement pension accrued during the marriage and according to him, the Dutch court cannot derive jurisdiction from Article 9 DCCP. The court has interpreted this defense of jurisdiction as an incidental claim.

2.3.
The woman defends the incident.

2.4.
The claims of the man in conditional counterclaim (under the condition that the court considers itself competent in convention) extend to i) distribution of the balance of a joint bank account of the parties, ii) equalization of the woman's claim during the marriage. old-age pension accrued by the parties in Spain, and iii) cancellation of the precautionary third-party attachment imposed by the woman under Nationale Nederlanden.

2.5.
Insofar as relevant, the statements of the parties will be discussed below.

2.6.
There is no treaty or regulation that governs jurisdiction in this matter. The jurisdiction of the Dutch court must therefore be assessed on the basis of Title 1, Section 1, DCCP.

3 Reasons of the Decision
2.7.
The Dutch court cannot derive jurisdiction from Articles 2 to 6 Rv. The next question is whether the Dutch court can derive jurisdiction from Article 8 paragraph 1 DCCP, on the basis of the following choice of forum in the prenuptial agreement agreed between the parties on 18 August 1993:

“The persons acting as reported stated that with regard to the interpretation of these marriage conditions only Dutch law will apply and that disputes with regard to the interpretation of the marriage conditions can only be brought before the Dutch court; all this partly in connection with the fact that their first marriage domicile will be in the Netherlands. ”

2.8.
In order to answer the question whether this choice of forum extends to disputes about the equalization, the court first considers it important which law applies to the matrimonial property. As the parties got married on [day] 1993, the Convention on the law applicable to the matrimonial property regime, The Hague, 14 March 1978 (Stb. 1991, 628) (hereinafter: the Treaty) applies. The court can leave open whether the parties have made an unambiguous choice of law for Dutch law in their prenuptial agreement. If this is not the case, pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 1 of the Convention, Dutch law also applies to the matrimonial property regime, now that the parties in the Netherlands had their first marriage domicile.

2.9.
The court takes the starting point that Article 8 paragraph 1 DCCP aims to grant legal effect to the express will of the parties to declare the Dutch court competent to hear their dispute.

2.10.
At the time of entering into the prenuptial agreement, pension rights were settled in accordance with the rules of the Boon / Van Loonarrest. It is therefore possible that nothing is arranged in the prenuptial agreement about (settlement of) pension rights. It is obvious that the prenuptial agreement does not mention anything about pension equalization either, because the Wvps only entered into force on 1 May 1995. Although it can be said that settlement of the matrimonial property after divorce is connected with equalization of pension rights after divorce, but without additional facts or circumstances, which have not been asserted or proven, the choice of forum clause, seen in the light of the other prenuptial agreement, does not show the express will of the parties to designate the Dutch court for disputes about the equalization of pension rights. The Dutch court therefore has no jurisdiction under Article 8 paragraph 1 DCCP.

2.11.
The next issue is whether the Dutch court can have jurisdiction based on Article 9, preamble and under c Rv. According to this provision, the Dutch court that cannot derive jurisdiction from Articles 2 to 8 of the DCCP is nevertheless competent if the case to be brought by summons is sufficiently connected to the legal sphere of the Netherlands (i), and it is unacceptable for the require the claimant to submit the case to the judgment of a judge of a foreign state (relative forum necessitatis) (ii). Given the wording used ("unacceptable" and "require"), this provision should be interpreted restrictively. This is also evident from the legislative history, in which the judge is furthermore urged to exercise great restraint with regard to accepting sufficient ties with the Dutch legal sphere as referred to in Article 9, preamble and under c, Rv.

2.12.
Requirement (i) has now been met, now that the man has Dutch nationality, parties in the Netherlands are married and had their first marriage domicile here, Dutch law applies to marital property and the man has accrued pension rights in the Netherlands.

2.13.
Concerning requirement (ii), the woman has summarized the following:

a. a) the Spanish court has no knowledge of the Wvps;

b) the enforcement of the Spanish judgment in the Netherlands will be exceptionally cumbersome and will lead to enforcement problems;

c) the Spanish procedure will be much more expensive than the Dutch procedure;

d) the Spanish procedure will take much longer than the Dutch procedure;

(e) the equalization of pension rights is closely linked to the further settlement of the matrimonial property (claimed by the man in the counterclaim).

2.14.
It is not exceptional that the Spanish judge must apply Dutch law in such cases. The Dutch court also applies foreign law where appropriate. The Spanish judgment can be enforced in the Netherlands under the Brussels Ia Regulation. Nor can the circumstances set out under c, d and e lead to the conclusion that it is unacceptable to require the woman to bring her case before the Spanish court. The foregoing means that the Dutch court cannot derive jurisdiction from Article 9, preamble and under c Rv.

2.15.
The conclusion is that the court has no jurisdiction with regard to the

claim in convention. Thus, the condition under which counterclaim actions are brought is not fulfilled. These claims can therefore go beyond discussion.

2.16.
In the circumstance that the parties are former spouses, the court finds reason to compensate the legal costs between the parties.

4 Decision
The court

in the incident and in the main action

3.1.
declares that it has no authority to take cognizance of the woman's claim in the main action;

3.2.
compensates the legal costs between the parties in the sense that each party bears its own costs.

This verdict was rendered by Mr. L. Alwin and pronounced in public on March 11, 2020.

HR November 27, 1981, NJ 1982, 503.

see TK 1999/2000, 26 855, no. 3, p. 41 and 43.

Regulation (EU) No 1215/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2012 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters (recast) (OJ 2012, L 351/1)

type: 1554 Error! Reference source not found.