Pronunciation


COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE HERTOGENBOSCH

Family and youth law team

case numbers: 200.261.807 / 01 and 200.271.850 / 01

case number court: C / 02/328024 FA RK 17-1295

decision of the multiple chamber of 12 March 2020

on

[appellant],

residing in [place of residence],

applicant in principal appeal,

defendant in the cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the woman,

lawyer mr. J.A.M. from Weely in Waalwijk,

against

[defendant],

residing in [place of residence],

defendant in the main appeal,

applicant in the cross-appeal,

hereinafter referred to as: the man,

lawyer mr. R.A.M. Verlijsdonk in 's-Hertogenbosch.

1 Proceedings

For the course of the proceedings in the first instance, the court refers to the order of the Zeeland-West-Brabant (Breda) court of 26 March 2019, pronounced under the aforementioned case number.

The appeal proceedings
2.1.
The woman appealed the decision of 26 March 2019 on 25 June 2019.

2.2.
On 2 September 2019, the man filed a statement of defense also containing an incidental appeal, with exhibits 1 to 3;

2.3.
The woman filed a defense to the cross-appeal on 15 October 2019.

2.4.
The following documents were also received at the court:

a V1 form from the side of the woman on July 15, 2019 Annexes I to XXI (with the exception of XI and XXII)

a letter from the woman dated 3 January 2020 with Annexes XXIII (erroneously numbered XIII) to XXXIX;

a letter from the woman dated 3 January 2020 with Annex XL;

a letter from the man dated January 3, 2020, with exhibits 4 to 17;

a letter from the man dated 8 January 2020 with Exhibit 18.

2.5.
The oral hearing took place on January 15, 2020. Parties have appeared in person, assisted by their lawyers. The man's lawyer presented a pleading note at the hearing.

2 Facts
3.1.
The court of appeal is based on the facts established by the court insofar as no appeal has been brought against it. Among other things, the following has been established:

a. The parties were married on 7 May 1998 in the municipality of Waalwijk on prenuptial agreements.

The prenuptial agreement of the parties includes the following:

“(…)

Overall exclusion

Article 1.

The spouses are married to the exclusion of any community of property.

(…)

Fees

Article 3.

The spouses are obliged to compensate each other for what has been withdrawn from the property of one spouse for the benefit of the other spouse, amounting to (...) the withdrawal.

(…)

Cost of housekeeping

Article 7.

1. The costs of the joint household (…) shall be paid in proportion to the income of the spouses. (…)

2. The spouse who, in any calendar year, has contributed more to the costs of the household than his share under the above, has the right to recover the excess contributed from the other spouse.

3. The right to reclaim the excess contributed in this way lapses if payment or settlement thereof has not been made within two years after the end of the relevant calendar year or has been demanded in writing.

(…) ”

Parties are born out of the marriage:

the currently adult daughter of the parties: [the adult] on [date of birth] 1999 in [place of birth], hereinafter: [the adult];

the currently still minor son of the parties: [the minor] on [date of birth] 2004 in [place of birth], hereinafter: [the minor],

hereafter also: the children.

On March 23, 2017, the woman filed for divorce. Divorce was subsequently pronounced in the contested decision.

The divorce decision was entered in the registers of civil status on August 23, 2019.

3.2.
Insofar as amounts are mentioned below, the court has always rounded these, unless stated otherwise.

3 Scope of Dispute
4.1.
The contested decision, in so far as relevant now:

- enforceable in the case of stock, stipulates that the man must pay an amount of € 268 per month to the woman for subsistence maintenance from the day that the order is entered in the registers of civil status;

- the woman sentenced to pay the husband against decent proof of discharge, an amount of € 12,384 plus the statutory interest “from the date of the decision to be taken” until the date of full payment;

- rejected the more or otherwise requested.

4.2.
The woman raised two complaints against the contested decision.

Her complaints concern the court's actions under Art. 3 of the prenuptial agreement granted to the man compensation rights for:

the Suzuki Alto (complaint 1);

the payments to the woman's company (complaint 2).

4.2.1.
The woman requests the court to appeal the contested decision, in so far as it is judged by

subject to the court, annul and again condemn the man to pay the woman against decent proof of discharge the amount of € 4,800 plus the legal interest from the date of the decision to be made until the date of full payment, at least such a higher or lower amount as the court considers correct.

4.2.2.
The man defends. He requests the woman to be declared inadmissible in her appeal or to dismiss her appeal.

4.3.
In his occasional appeal, the man raised five complaints against the contested decision. His grievances are related to the contribution of the woman's living expenses of € 268 per month, determined by the court and to be paid by the husband, in particular:

the neediness of the woman (complaints 1 and 2);

the carrying capacity of the man (complaints 3, 4 and 5).

4.3.1.
The man requests the court to annul the contested order, insofar as it is subject to the judgment of the court, and to decide again, as far as practicable if possible with stock, that the man is entered in the registers as of the day that the divorce order is entered of the civil status to the woman no contribution is owed in her maintenance, at least to set it at nil, at least on a contribution that the court deems correct, less than € 268 per month, which amount will be phased out after three years from the date of registration of the divorce decision.

4.3.2.
The woman put up a defense. She requests the man to be declared inadmissible in his cross-appeal, or to dismiss it, or to take a decision that the court considers correct. As an additional request, the woman has further requested that the man must pay the woman for her subsistence maintenance as of August 23, 2019, an amount of € 268 per month, at least such an amount that is higher or lower than that of the court. right eight.

4.4.
The court will discuss the grievances in principle and on an incidental appeal per subject.

4 Reasons of the Decision
Partner maintenance

starting date

5.1.
There is no dispute between the parties that the starting date for the woman's subsistence allowance to be paid by the man is the day on which the divorce decision is registered in the registers of civil status, namely 23 August 2019.

Height of woman's need

5.2.
The marriage-related requirement of the woman of € 1,297 net per month, calculated by the court, is not in dispute on appeal. With reference year 2017 as of 1 January 2019, analogous to art. 1: 402a paragraph 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, the indexed marriage-related need of the woman is € 1,342 per month.

Carrying capacity of the man

5.3.
The court sees reason to first consider the man's ability to pay.

5.3.1.
The man states that his capacity is not sufficient to pay the maintenance fee of € 268 per month set by the court.

Income man

5.3.2.
The man argues that the court wrongly assumed his salary on the basis of full-time employment when determining his ability to pay. Due to the care for [the minor], as of 1 April 2019 he was forced to reduce his full-time employment at [university of applied sciences] to a part-time employment of 0.8. In addition, he was put under great pressure by his employer. In the meantime, as a result of an intended reorganization, he has made use of the 'place-maker scheme' included in the social plan. The situation on the work floor had become unsustainable. He was under great pressure and there have been more conversations in which the dissatisfaction of the employer with the man as an employee was expressed. He often had to take time off for conversations with care providers in connection with the care provided to [the minor]. Due to his absenteeism, he was high on the list to be fired. Ultimately, he was given the choice: either resign himself with a number of severance pay, or be fired because of the reorganization with all the costs and (even more) negative energy involved and without guarantee of a severance pay. He chose the first option because he couldn't take it anymore. His employment contract ended on 1 August 2019 and he has no income since then.

5.3.3.
The woman put up a defense. In short, she states that the loss of income must be for the account and risk of the man. The man himself has chosen to make use of the "place-maker scheme" and resign, while it was not certain that the man would be fired as a result of the reorganization.

5.3.4.
In the opinion of the court, there is questionable loss of income on the side of the man, which recovery can also reasonably be expected of the man. To this end, the Court of Appeal considers that the husband has not sufficiently substantiated to the reasoned contestation of the woman that if he had not resigned himself, he would have been dismissed by his employer in connection with an intended reorganization. Although it can be deduced from the documents submitted by the man that the relationship between the man and his employer had been considerably disturbed, the fact that the situation on the work floor had become so untenable that his employer intended to fire him has not been established. . In addition, insofar as the proposed reorganization of his employer would have already led to his dismissal, the man has failed to substantiate that by using the 'placeer scheme' he has ended up in a more financially favorable position than if he had been fired. By resigning on your own initiative in exchange for a severance pay, there is no question of dismissal on the initiative of the employer. As a result, the man is not entitled to benefits. That he now has no income should therefore be at his expense and risk.

5.3.5.
Now that it has neither been stated nor proved that the man cannot earn a comparable salary in a new employment relationship, the court, because in his opinion there is recoverable income loss, calculates his ability to pay from the income that the man enjoyed at [college] college. In addition, the court assumes the salary of the man he earned on the basis of his part-time employment. The documents and what has been put forward by the man have sufficiently revealed that he was forced to work less. The man took full care of [the minor] and had to take time off regularly for interviews with care providers in the context of (forced) assistance for [the minor], (this was a matter of supervision under Article 1: 254 BW). . In the court's opinion, this concern could not be combined with a full-time job. In addition, it has been established that the man was increasingly struggling with stress-related complaints as a result of the protracted divorce proceedings.

5.3.6.
According to the salary specifications submitted by the man from April to July 2019, the man enjoyed part-time income of € 2,048.97 gross per month, less the pension contribution of € 110.43 and the AOP contribution of € 0.90, and increased with holiday pay and end-of-year bonus.

5.3.7.
When calculating the ability to pay, the court takes into account the general tax credit and the employed person's tax credit.

5.3.8.
The above results in a disposable income of € 1,890 net per month.

Burdens of the man

5.3.9.
The Court of First Instance states that when assessing the ability of the man to determine his legal obligation to contribute to the subsistence of the woman, account should in principle be taken of all reasonable expenses borne by the man come.

5.3.10.
With regard to his expenses and expenses, the court assumes the following uncontested items on a monthly basis:

- € 155, - € 155, - in medical expenses:

€ 158 in ZVW basic health insurance premium,

€ 32 of compulsory deductible;

minus € 35, being the nominal part of the ZVW premium included in the social assistance standard;

- € 95 (€ 95 (lump sum) in owner's expenses.

5.3.11.
Since the actual net housing costs are € 95 less than the applicable average basic rent of € 226, the court takes into account a living burden on the part of the man of nil.

5.3.12.
Partly in view of the motivated dispute by the woman, the court does not take into account the amount of € 92.00 in life insurance premium raised by the man. It is certain that there is no mortgage loan on the house. It has not been established or proven why this premium should be taken into account after all.

5.3.13.
The court does not take into account the lawyer's fees charged by the man. Barring special circumstances, in accordance with the Trema guidelines, lawyer costs are not taken into account when determining the ability to pay. No special circumstances have been found in this regard.

Determination of maintenance

5.3.14.
Now that it concerns the determination of the man's ability to pay for spousal maintenance, the court takes into account the norm for a single person and the ability to pay capacity of 60, recommended by the Expert Group for Alimony Standards.

5.3.15.
The man's ability to pay will also be charged to the uncontested share that the man makes in the children's costs of € 200 ([the adult]) and € 296 ([the minor]) per month. .

5.3.16.
On the basis of the aforementioned facts and circumstances, the man has no capacity to make a contribution to the woman's living expenses. In view of the lack of manpower, the court does not discuss the need of women at this time.

Refund

5.4.
Insofar as the man has paid more and / or recovered more from him as of the effective date 23 August 2019 to date than what he is obliged to do on the basis of this decision, the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that of the woman, also in view of the fact that such a contribution tends to be consumed from month to month cannot reasonably be required to repay it.

Conclusion

5.5.
The conclusion is that the contested decision must be set aside to the extent that it stipulates that the husband must pay a living contribution of € 268 per month for the woman and that the woman's preliminary request for a contribution in her livelihood still has to be rejected.

Rights under the prenuptial agreement

The Suzuki Alto

5.6.1.
The woman's complaint 1 objects to the court's decision that the woman must pay the man an amount of € 6,250 in respect of the Suzuki Alto brand car. She adds the following to explain her complaint.

The court wrongly ruled that the Suzuki Alto was delivered to her, that she owns the Suzuki Alto, that the man paid the Suzuki Alto at a purchase value of € 6,250, and that, therefore, under art. 3 of the prenuptial agreement for this amount has a right to compensation. The purchase of the Suzuki Alto is an expense that falls under the cost of the household as referred to in art. 7 paragraph 1 of the prenuptial agreement. The parties purchased the car together because this was necessary and in the interest of [the adult].

5.6.2.
The man put up a defense. The woman has insufficiently substantiated her complaint. She substantiates her complaint by formulating more complaints, but there is no clear explanation of her complaint. It has made its objections to the court's decision insufficiently known. Nor has it given any reasons why the court should rule otherwise. The purchase costs of a car are not household costs. Gasoline, insurance, road tax and maintenance costs of a car are costs of the household. The purchase of a car is also not a cost of the children. The car was explicitly not necessarily purchased for [the adult].

5.6.3.
The court considers as follows.

The woman's complaint essentially means that she disagrees with the court's decision that she should reimburse the man for the Suzuki Alto an amount of € 6,250 (see points 4.1 to 4.1. 3 appeal of the woman). The reasons why the court order should be set aside on this point are insufficiently clear.

The woman claims that the parties purchased the Suzuki Alto together, because this was necessary in the interest of [the adult] and that therefore the costs of that purchase belong to the costs of the household (point 4.1.4 appeal) . Insofar as the woman intended to argue that the Suzuki Alto is jointly owned by the parties, so that a right of compensation accruing to the man as referred to in art. 3 of the prenuptial agreement cannot exist, this argument does not hold. The invoice from Automobielbedrijf [Automobielbedrijf] BV, submitted by the man at first instance as Appendix 10, shows that the Suzuki Alto was only sold and delivered to women.

Insofar as the court must understand the woman's argument that she takes the view that she is not indebted to the man for the purchase of the Suzuki Alto, because the related costs must be incurred as household costs. the court considers as follows. If the costs of the purchase of the Suzuki Alto should be classified as household costs, the wife will ignore the fact that those costs are paid out of the husbands' income in proportion to that (see art. 7 of the prenuptial agreement) . As she also acknowledged in the oral procedure, the woman has not commented on this, so that it will not lead to her complaint either.

The foregoing leads to the conclusion that the woman's grievance fails.

The payments to the woman's company

5.7.1.
The woman's complaint 2 means that the court has wrongly ruled that she is obliged to pay the man an amount of € 6,134 in respect of the man's payments to the woman's company. The complaint also means that the court wrongly did not follow the woman in her assertion that she has an indemnity right on the man for an amount of € 4,800.

5.7.2.
The man put up a defense. The woman has insufficiently substantiated her complaint. She has not presented her objections and she does not put forward any reasons why the court should rule otherwise. She substantiates her complaint by formulating even more grievances. All she puts forward for reasons is that she is going to bring documents to court. If the woman believes that a court consideration is incorrect, she should explain why it is not correct. The man also provided sufficient invoices and account statements in the first instance, from which it follows that capital shifts have taken place.

5.7.3.
The court considers as follows.

The woman's grievance fails. This complaint also essentially means that the court's decision is incorrect. In her appeal, the woman has not substantiated her complaint in any way, other than that she would provide further documents during the proceedings. Only on January 3, 2020 did the court receive exhibits XXIII (mistakenly numbered XIII) through XXXIX. The court understands that this concerns the further documents referred to. An explanation of those documents is missing.

The man's lawyer has objected to these documents. It is unclear to her what the woman wants to demonstrate with these pieces. During the oral hearing, she stated that she was unable to understand the documents submitted by the woman.

In the opinion of the court, the objections raised by the man's lawyer are justified. It is also not clear to the court what the woman wants to achieve with these documents. The woman's reliance on the ranking of the documents by complaint did not remove this ambiguity. After all, by simply arranging documents per subject, no explanation is given on the documents. As a result, the intention of submitting the documents (and also: the legal consequence that is intended with this) remains unclear. The mere submission of documents is therefore insufficient (notwithstanding the time at which this takes place) to substantiate a complaint. Incidentally, what the woman further stated at the hearing did not lead to the desired clarity either.

This working method (not substantiating a complaint in a timely manner and submitting further documents without any explanation) must be considered to be contrary to good procedural rules. After all, this makes it unclear to the other party (and also the court of appeal) what is intended with a complaint and in what sense documents submitted could serve to substantiate that complaint. This impedes the principle of hearing both sides of the argument (it is not clear to the other party what the defense should be against and that preliminary consultation with the client is made more difficult).

In addition, with regard to the amount claimed by the woman of € 4,800.00, the woman has neglected the proportionality measure in Art. 7 of the prenuptial agreement. For the sake of brevity, the court refers to rov. 5.6.3 before.

5 Conclusion
In the principal and the incidental appeal

6.1.
On the basis of what has been considered above, the Court of Appeal will, in so far as it is subject to its judgment, partially annul the contested decision and decide as shown below under No. 7.

6.2.
The court made a calculation of the man's standing. A certified copy of this calculation is attached and forms part of this Decision.

6 Decision
The Council:

annuls the contested decision, but only to the extent that it stipulates that the husband must pay an amount of € 268 as part of the woman's living expenses as of the date on which the divorce decree is entered in the civil registers. - per month,

and (to that extent) re-possessing:

rejects the woman's preliminary request for a contribution to make a living, on the understanding that, insofar as the man paid more and / or recovered from him over the period from 23 August 2019 to the present, today it is determined on what has been paid and / or recovered from the man;

declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

otherwise ratifies the court's order;

rejects the more or otherwise requested.

This decision was made by mrs. G.J. Vossestein, P.P.M. van Reijsen and H.J. Witkamp, ​​and was pronounced in public on March 12, 2020 in the presence of A.C. Kaemingk, registrar.
