Pronunciation


COURT OF NORTH HOLLAND
Family and Youth

location Haarlem

care arrangement

case / appeal no .: C / 15/275473 / FA RK 18-3451

Order of the single family room of 15 April 2020

in the case of:

[the mother] ,

residing in [place],

hereinafter referred to as: the mother,

lawyer mr. J.G. Wiebes, with office in Lelystad,

against

[the father] ,

residing in [place],

hereinafter referred to as: the father,

lawyer mr. N.D. Groenewoud, with offices in Nieuw-Vennep,

--about--

[minor 1], born on [date of birth] in [place], Syria,

[minor 2], born on [date of birth] in [place], Syria,

hereinafter also referred to as the minors.

1 Proceedings
1.1.
The course of the procedure can be seen from:

- the interim order of this court of 15 May 2019 and the documents mentioned therein;

- the additional report of the Child Protection Board of 14 October 2019;

- the F forms, with annexes, from the father's lawyer of 28 October 2019, 18 January 2020 and 17 February 2020;

- the F form of the mother's lawyer of 29 October 2019.

1.2.
The case was further discussed at the hearing on March 6, 2020 in the presence of parties, assisted by their lawyers. The parties were each accompanied by an interpreter in the Arabic language.

The Child Protection Board (hereinafter: the Council) has been summoned as an informant. No council representative has appeared - with notice of absence.

2 Facts
2.1
The divorce between the parties was pronounced by order of 15 May 2019. The court has determined the primary residence of the minors with the mother and a temporary care arrangement has been established. This temporary arrangement means that the minors stay with the father for two hours once a week on Friday, in the presence of the mother. In summary, the court has considered - in summary - that the parents, in consultation with the care provider concerned (Meerteam / Altra / Sensa Zorg), will have to consider how the contact can be extended and whether supervision of the mother remains necessary. The Council has been asked to give further advice on the definitive care arrangement and on the possible interpretation of the contact counseling.

3 Appeal
2.2
The Council reported in more detail on 14 October 2019. This report shows that from 1 July 2019 Sensa Zorg is involved in the person of [Sensa Zorg employee]. According to the Council, the children are doing well. However, no real access arrangements have been established. According to the Council, the mother cooperates well with Sensa Zorg and she is open to contact between the father and the minors, provided that the contact is supervised. The mother must regain confidence in the father.

When the mother continued the divorce, the father no longer wanted to cooperate with the temporary visitation arrangement. He did have daily contact with the children via video calling. The father has now announced that he wants to cooperate again with the supervised contact. According to the Council, the children remain fearful towards their father. Assistance may still be required. The father must show that he is reliable and that he can tune in to the fear and resistance of the minors. According to the Council, the children now need clarity. The Council recommends a care arrangement whereby the minors stay with the father under the supervision of third parties, for two hours a week on Friday at a place to be determined by the parents and the care provider. The Council also notes that daily Skype contact with the father is too burdensome for the children, two fixed days a week would be better.

2.3
Sensa Zorg [Sensa Zorg employee] sent an e-mail message to the father's lawyer on January 29, 2020. This message contains - briefly stated - the following. The mother has been with the children at the father's house a few times since December 2019. The father has also been at the mother's house. The initiative of this contact also sometimes comes from the children. [Sensa Zorg employee] has established that the children can only be with the father. [Sensa Zorg employee] recommends such unaccompanied contact in order to build a healthy mutual bond. The father would like unaccompanied association one to two days a week.

2.4
The mother explained at the hearing that there is usually one to two hours of interaction on Friday under the supervision of [employee Sensa Zorg]. She is therefore always present. During the week there is now more contact between the man and the children. This is easy because the father lives nearby. Until now, the mother has always been involved. The mother wants to work towards unaccompanied association. She has discussed this with the children, but they want her to be present at all times. Even if the children Skype with the father, they want the mother to be there. [minor 1] has already been to the hairdresser with the father once. [minor 2] has not been alone with the father. The mother hopes that at some point the children will be ready to be alone with their father, but she thinks it is much too early for that now. The mother is afraid that the children will get a kickback if the interaction will take place too quickly unaccompanied. She thinks the situation as it is now is going well with guidance from Sensa Zorg, on the understanding that [Sensa Zorg employee] recently quit and that she now has to get used to her successor. The mother wants the daily Skype contact between the father and the children to be continued.

Mr. Wiebes considers it advisable to continue the case for a period of one year to see to what extent steps have been taken to achieve unaccompanied relations. It is important that the mother always encourages the children to go to their father without her. Sensa Zorg must remain involved for the time being.

2.5
The father wants to work quickly towards unaccompanied association. A long process has now been completed to improve the relationship between the parties and to get the children accustomed to him (again). Major steps have been taken in this regard. It has been found that the children have reasonably processed their war trauma, according to the mother. Relationships between the parties have since normalized and there is no indication that the children are not safe with the father. The father now has almost daily contact with the children and the mother. The next step should therefore be unaccompanied association. The guidance by Sensa Zorg can continue for several weeks, but the mother no longer has to be present at the intercourse. Subsequently, the association can be built up from one day to two days with an overnight stay without supervision. According to the father, mutual trust can only grow if it turns out that this unaccompanied relationship is going well.

4 Reasons of the Decision
2.6
The court considers the following. The starting point is that children have unaccompanied association with both their parents, so that they can have an unobstructed bond with both of them. In special situations, for example if it appears that the safety of a child cannot be guaranteed with a parent, this contact must take place under supervision. In the present case there were special circumstances, because the children were traumatized by the war situation in Syria and by the stay in the AZC after arrival in the Netherlands. [Minor 1] had not seen his father for a long time and [Minor 2] did not know him at all. In addition, the relationship between the parties had become disrupted. It was therefore in the children's interest that the association with their father, which they knew little or no, was carefully initiated under supervision. The situation has now changed in a positive way. The children seem to have fairly processed their war trauma, they have settled in the Netherlands and the relationship between the parties has improved. In addition, the children now have daily physical contact with their father via Skype and a few times a week, although until now this has always been in front of the mother.

In this state of affairs, the court considers it in the interest of the children to continue working towards unaccompanied interaction, which has always been the aim. The court sees no indications that the situation with the father is unsafe; however, that the children are vulnerable because of their traumatic experiences in the past and that they need a lot of safety.

2.7
The court will draw up a step-by-step plan for working towards unaccompanied contact. The starting point is that the current arrangements for dealing with the father will continue on Friday afternoon (two hours under the supervision of Sensa Zorg), insofar as this is currently possible with the current Corona measures. In the moments of interaction under the guidance of Sensa Zorg, efforts will be made to ensure that these take place in the absence of the mother. To this end, it will be necessary to consider in consultation between the father, the mother and Sensa Zorg which reduction in the presence of the mother is in the interest of the children. The court considers it a good start to let the mother be out of sight for fifteen minutes, then half an hour, then an hour and then the entire two-hour procedure.

In addition to this supervised interaction, weekly unaccompanied interactions will take place from 22 April 2020, so without the presence of Sensa Zorg and the mother, in accordance with the following accrual arrangement. To this end, the mother and father will have to make agreements, under the supervision of Sensa Zorg, on which day and in which place the association will be. It is in the interest of the children that the mother supports the children in dealing with their father, and gives them the assurance and confidence that, although not in sight, she will be there for the children and return them at the appointed time see. The court suggests that the mother seek help and support during the unaccompanied moments of access when she needs it or when this can help her to give the children certainty and confidence in her cooperation with the unaccompanied access arrangements.

The court considers that it is unclear how the measures regarding the Corona virus will develop, and whether guided handling by Sensa care is possible within those measures. If counseling of the handling by Sensa care is not possible, the court considers the importance that [minor 1] and [minor 2] to continue seeing their father outweigh the mother's care regarding unaccompanied intercourse (see considerations under 2.6 ).

2.8
Structural arrangement for unaccompanied access as of April 22, 2020:

the first week: half an hour unaccompanied;

the second and the third week: two half an hour unaccompanied;

the fourth and the fifth week: once half an hour and once an hour unaccompanied;

the sixth and the seventh week: twice an hour unaccompanied;

the eighth and the ninth week: once two hours and once an hour and a half unaccompanied;

from the tenth week to the pro forma date: two hours of unaccompanied every week.

2.9
In connection with the current Corona measures, the court notes that as long as these measures apply, physical contact cannot take place with a person who coughs or sneezes and has a temperature of more than 38 degrees or is stuffy. If this is the case, Skype contact or telephone contact is an alternative to physical contact.

2.10
The court will hold the case until July 15, 2020 pro forma pending the progress of this temporary supervised and unaccompanied care arrangement. Because the case is being held for such a short period, and because physical contact may be limited due to the applicable Corona measures, the court now sees no reason to limit the Skype contacts, as advised by the council.

5 Decision
The court:

3.1.
Determines the following temporary distribution of the care and upbringing duties, with an amendment to the temporary care scheme established by the aforementioned decision of 15 May 2019, until further decision is taken:

the minors [minors]:

- [minor 1], born on [date of birth] in [place], Syria,

- [minor 2], born on [date of birth] in [place], Syria,

stay with the father for two hours every Friday, under the supervision of an employee of Sensa Zorg, and also from 22 April 2020 unaccompanied in accordance with the accrual scheme as shown under 2.8 and 2.9;

3.2.
declares this decision enforceable to the extent that it is in stock;

3.3.
maintains the decision on the final division of care and upbringing duties until 15 July 2020 PRO FORMA;

3.4.
requests the lawyers to notify the court in writing of the progress of the temporary supervised and unaccompanied care scheme and the consequences to be attached thereto.

3.5.
provides that the written notice must be received by the court by July 8, 2020.

The court will then decide on the further progress of the procedure;

This decision was made by mr. C.A. Schreuder, judge, also children's judge, in the presence of M. Struijk as Registrar and pronounced in public on April 15, 2020.

To the extent that a final decision has been made, an appeal may be lodged with the Amsterdam Court of Appeal through a lawyer. The requesting party and / or the defendant must file the appeal within three months of the date of the decision.